What continues to drive the market
higher here is the tech and the AI
narrative.
>> We are starting to enter the middle game
of AI.
>> It's not [music] bubble-ish valuation.
>> This is an AI revolution. The underlying
inertia right now looks like it's pretty
set to continue for the foreseeable
future.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, the bond market looking for
an anchor. Global bonds breaking down
sending yields to multi-decade highs.
Tension in the Middle East underpinning
the outlook for higher prices leaving
Wall Street beginning to question just
how long the Kevin Warsh Fed can avoid
tightening policy.
>> This is what Ed Yardeni was talking
about over the weekend in a note where
he came out and said, "If the Fed avoids
eliminating the easing bias that they
currently have with respect to policy,
[music] investors will conclude that the
Central Bank is falling behind the
inflation curve and will demand a higher
inflation risk premium." A question I
have this morning is how much is that
already already being baked in? The idea
that Kevin Warsh is going to come in and
be dovish and right now we're seeing the
bond vigilantes getting really excited,
sharpening their knives and saying,
"Let's have a crack at this one."
>> It felt a bit unhinged at times over the
last couple of days, particularly
overnight in Japan. [music] At one
point, the long end of the Japanese
curve with a move of 20 basis points.
That's [music] a struggle. Japan's got
its own problems. The global bond market
has got a lot of problems right now
across the UK, Japan, Germany, the US,
[music] too.
>> Part of the problem is exactly the Kevin
Warsh issue is something global. We
don't have a sense of how much
determination there will be by monetary
policy [music] makers to take the pain
to hike rates. This is a concerning
moment where you have potential threats
to growth at the same time that you have
inflation. And right now the political
pressure is to emphasize growth, is to
emphasize fiscal stimulus, is to
emphasize trying to make things better
through the uh
of something, not necessarily the taking
away of something, and that is the
reason why people are pushing back.
>> Well, when it comes to the politics of
this, the president actually might give
Kevin Warsh some more time. Just hours
[music] ago, Fortune released an
interview they had with the president.
They sat with him the day that Kevin
Warsh had a key hurdle that he was able
to get over in terms [music] of the
Senate, and they said with rising oil
costs from the Iran war driving up
inflation, the president seemed resigned
to the fact they may have to wait for
more cuts. Quote, "You can't really look
at the figures until the war is over."
[music] You see, giving Kevin Warsh some
more space and time before he puts some
pressure on him to cut rates.
>> That's where the problem start in the
energy market. You see it in crude again
this morning, Brent and WTI, Brent
around 110. [music] The move in crude
fueling inflation and the outlook for
higher prices. That's raising questions
about fiscal space.
Highlighting issues around leadership in
places like the UK and leaving central
[music] bankers confronting the prospect
of hiking interest rates. I'll tell you
things have changed. A month or so ago,
we had people in fixed [music] income
come on the program and say, "We're
creating value in the yield curve. I'm
interested in the belly of the curve.
I'm interested in tens, maybe even going
further out along the yield curve." Six
weeks later, I don't hear that at all.
Six weeks ago, this market refused to
internalize the prospect of higher
interest rates further down the road.
>> [music]
>> Things have changed a lot in six to
eight weeks.
>> What's changed is 80 days. That is the
number of days that this [music]
conflict has been going on between the
US and Iran, and the Strait of Hormuz
has been closed for that duration. Now,
the question is, is it better that we're
in a ceasefire? There's no escalate,
de-escalate, and there isn't the
appetite to do that. So, we're just in
this quagmire where you're not seeing
traffic go through. At what point do
people start seeing the step change in
terms of just the pure supplies of oil
that start to real really pressure
prices in a more material way.
>> Brent crude [music] 110, WTI this
morning around 106. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Rob Rowe of Citi as
equities extend [music] losses. Terry
Haines of PanAgora Policy as President
Trump warns the clock is ticking for
Iran. And Kelsey Berro of JPMorgan Asset
Management as bond yields test
multi-decade highs. We'll begin this out
with higher bond yields putting pressure
on equities. Rob Rowe of Citi
maintaining an S&P year-end target of
7,700
writing this on the bond market and
fixed income. The market is now pricing
in about 35 basis points of rate highs,
which seems challenging to realize as
the recent dissenters will not be voters
in 2027. Rob joins us now for more. Rob,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> We've got a lot to work through. Let's
start with the bar for rate hikes. How
high is the bar for rate hikes at this
Federal Reserve? You know, I actually
think that
we've seen a cautionary tale with the
central banks. We would be hesitant to
be raising rates here because you're
facing a more stagflationary scenario.
When inflation is demand driven,
that might be a motivation to raise
rates. It's hard to raise rates here
right now. We do think though that the
narrative on inflation will continue
into probably June or into the summer
and that inflation will continue to tick
higher, which will put pressure on the
central banks to raise rates. Mind you,
the US has a dual mandate, which I think
is an advantage here, especially if we
think that we'll see a more softening of
unemployment
of employment and we'll see higher
unemployment going into the summer.
>> Well, let's get to that word you used,
stagflation. So, we've seen tons of
inflation in the energy market, CPI,
PPI. Struggling to find the stag right
now. What do you see exactly?
Well, there is growth in certain parts
of the economy,
but when you see ag prices going up too
and we see other prices going up and
they're driven,
you're starting to see a slowdown in
other areas and other sectors.
Is the bond market pricing in a
re-acceleration essentially that the
stock market is also banking on? In
other words, are they singing the same
story, which isn't one of stagflation,
but just flation? Flation.
>> [laughter]
>> The the bond market, I think is
definitely the narrative is driven by
inflation right now and I think that
will continue for the next couple of
months. Our we have a bullish call on
oil right now that's probably around
120.
So, at least for the next 0 to 3 months.
If that were to continue into the second
half of the year,
then we would have to start to ratchet
down our call on global
global economic growth and also US
economic growth. So, can you square $120
of oil with your 7,700 call for the S&P
at year-end paired with a 3.75%
10-year at the end of the year, even
though you have inflation that seems to
be predicated on where oil prices are?
>> Right. I mean, get ready because we
think there'll still be three Fed cuts
at the end of the year. So,
>> trying to wrap my head around that right
now.
Um we think that unemployment will pick
up in the later half of the year.
Certainly, if inflation gets higher,
that will be an even you know, worse
situation for the economy. And that's
why you would start to see more of a
downturn and a pull away into more the
market pricing in cuts instead of hikes
going forward. So,
um if you think about
oil being up that high, you know, we
already ratchet down our growth forecast
on global economy to about 2.6%. That
could go as low as two
to one and a half percent if we saw $120
a barrel continuous
into the second half, especially with
the US.
We would have to ratchet up our
inflation expectations to about 3.4% for
the year. Now, with the equity markets
and the 7,700 call,
what we are seeing is the AI momentum
continues to move forward. We're still
seeing very strong earnings. We're
seeing a bifurcated S&P 500 for sure.
So, we're seeing a very strong AI driven
growth. PEG ratios still remain
relatively reasonably valued. So, we
don't think that they're priced too
high. But on the other hand, some of the
other sectors are starting to get
affected by inflation. Do you need to
rethink three cuts this year given the
fact that even the president is
conceding that Kevin Warsh might have a
little bit of a harder time convincing
this deliberative body to take that
move. Well, my the my song on my wedding
was what a difference a day makes. And
so, I think when we get to the second
half of the year, um you never know what
you'll see. You will see a higher
unemployment because we start to see
just from a seasonal standpoint, we'll
start to see jobs slow down. And we'll
also see a new workforce coming in as
grads come into the workforce. So, we
will start to see higher unemployment.
And I think that could give breath at
least to hold rates where they are, you
know, for the for the third quarter. And
then it's not until the fourth quarter
that we would start to see rate cuts.
>> When you sit around the table with Max
Layton and Andrew Hollenhorst, do they
throw things at each other? Do they
[laughter] Do they fight it out right
now? How does this work?
>> We've had a lot of arguments about those
calls. Let's get to the yield curve
right now. Some of the numbers we see on
the screen, 10s around 460, 30s north of
5%. Can we live with those kind of
numbers? At some point, usually in the
bond market, things become
self-limiting. The bond market goes so
far, starts to buy into growth, and then
things reverse. Can we live with this?
For the time being, yes. But I think
we're we're actually knowing a bit long
duration, but only in the five year. So,
we're not bold enough to go into the
long end of the curve quite yet, you
know, not into 10s quite yet. Um because
we think that narrative on inflation
will continue. So, what do you say to
people who argue that at these level
levels, these valuations of yields, that
crimps the overall multiple to such a
degree that it doesn't justify further
gains from here, especially some of the
high-flying stocks. Why do you disagree
with that? Well, uh the our big driver
were PEG ratios. So, if we look at that,
if we look at the price versus uh
growth, everything still looks valued
really well. Going forward, what are you
going to looking for this week? Is it
more going to be the Target earnings and
the Walmart earnings or more the Nvidia
earnings? Which is more important to you
right now?
>> More important to me will be the Nvidia
earnings for my for our 7,700 call, for
sure.
A big report coming later this week. Rob
is going to save us, uh Thank you. We
appreciate it. Rob Bro, F C T in video
reporting later this week. We hear from
Target as well. A read on the consumer
important for the economy. A read on
Nvidia important for the market. Two
different ways of looking at things
right now. What's interesting as you
note that the economy might not be as
important to the market as say Nvidia
and it gives you a sense of how detached
these two have become. At what point
does actually pain in the economy lead
to rate cuts that actually will only
boost the multiples in the A I stocks.
Equity features on the S&P this morning
pulling back just a touch. We're down by
0.5% some big moves in the bond market
Friday spilling into the Asian session
already through Monday morning. Let's
give you an update on news worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Vani Quinn
has more. Hey Vani. Hey John, good
morning. President Trump warning that
the clock is ticking for Iran. The two
sides are still far apart on any deal to
end the war and reopen the Strait of
Hormuz. In a Truth Social post, Trump
saying Iran better get moving or quote,
"There won't be anything left of them."
New details emerging about President
Trump's meeting with Chinese President
Xi Jinping.
>> [music]
>> China agreeing to buy at least $17
billion of agricultural goods annually
through 2028. The Trump administration
also saying the country will set up
boards of trade and investment with the
US.
Three people were killed in Moscow and
over a dozen were injured in Ukrainian's
largest ever drone attacks. Moscow's
main oil refinery was targeted and a
number of residential buildings damaged.
Ukraine President Zelensky saying the
strikes were quote, "Entirely
justified." And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John. Hey Vani, thank you. Thanks
for the update. More from Vani later
this [music] hour. Up next on the
program, the president's nuclear red
line.
I don't think about
American's financial situation. I don't
think about anybody. I think about one
thing. We cannot let Iran have a nuclear
weapon. I have a feeling that first line
is going to be repeated again [music]
and again going into the midterms. Up
next, we'll catch up with Terry Haines
of Panji Policy. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> A very important week ahead for earnings
in corporate America. Check out the
calendar. Wednesday, the main event,
Nvidia coming after the closing bell.
Look out for that. In the week also,
earnings [music] from Target, earnings
from Walmart. How's the consumer doing?
But it's also not just about the
backdrop. I think it's really important
to point out. Lisa's done this a number
[music] of times. This is also about
execution. And the winner on execution
is Walmart over Target every [music]
single time for quite a while. Building
on that, how much are they deploying
artificial intelligence in a really
concrete way to try to increase
efficiency? [music]
They did announce some job cuts not so
long ago. How much do we hear more about
that? And where they are seeing a value
creation given some of these
investments? How that paints the road
ahead for a lot of different retailers?
>> that through the week. Right now, the
equity market, check it out. What a
really interesting session on Friday.
Again, spilling over into Monday.
Equities down by 0.4% on the S&P. On the
Nasdaq, down by 0.3 on Friday. The
biggest one-day loss since the [music]
end of March. We've had a massive run
since then, pulling back just a bit
compared to the huge rally we've seen
over the last month or so. Switch out
the board and get to the bond market.
New numbers to talk about. 460 on 10s.
Yields up a single basis point last
week, up more than 20 on 2s, comfortably
through 4% [music]
now. And on 30s, numbers we haven't seen
since 2007 on a closing basis. Your
30-year yield, 5.13. And if you think
that maybe just shifting things around
at the Treasury can change this, the
problem for any central banker and for
any government uh central bank is the
fact that this is global. You're seeing
over in Japan the highest rates in
30-year bonds going back to 1997. Over
in Germany since 2011 and the UK since
2008 and this is really giving a sense
of unease globally that's going to be
very hard to push back.
>> Fueled by this, this isn't helping. 110
on Brent,
>> [music]
>> front end of the futures curve, elevated
again up by about 1% on WTI, 106. This
has become
>> [music]
>> prolonged. I saw a note from Jim Reid at
Deutsche Bank earlier on this morning.
The ceasefire is now longer than the
kinetic phase. The issue is now that
this is just prolonged and it's very,
very unclear what's going to stop,
what's going to really address the the
deadlock down in the Middle East.
>> in paralysis, really, between Tehran and
Washington. The president yesterday said
that the clock is ticking. He [music]
met, according to Axios, his national
security team, J.D. Vance, the vice
president, Steve Witkoff, Marco Rubio,
and [music] basically it sounds like
they are weighing if they cannot make
any sort of progress forward when it
comes to deliberations on a nuclear
deal, then potentially this
administration would go back to strikes.
>> Crude this [music] morning up by close
to 1%. Under Savannah's this morning,
the president's nuclear
>> [music]
>> red line.
The only thing that matters when I'm
talking about Iran, they can't have a
nuclear weapon. I don't think about
Americans' financial situation. I don't
think about anybody. I think about one
thing. We cannot let Iran have a nuclear
weapon. That's all. So, here's the
latest this morning. President Trump
issuing a warning to Iran saying the
quote clock is ticking for Tehran to
make a deal. Bloomberg's Dana Telsey
joins us now from Washington for more.
Good morning, Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, at this
point, the ceasefire remains highly
fragile as both sides don't appear any
closer towards reaching a deal to end
the conflict or reopen the Strait of
Hormuz. In fact, we saw escalation over
the weekend as the UAE confirmed that a
drone had hit a power plant in Saudi
Arabia says that it intercepted multiple
projectiles over its airspace. And while
several energy shipments have made their
way through the Strait of Hormuz in
recent weeks, new data analyzed by
Bloomberg News and out this morning
shows that 23 tankers have clustered
near Kharg Island marking the single
largest bottleneck there
around the export hub since the US began
its naval blockade. As all of this
contributes and compounds higher prices
for Americans and eats into those
benefits of higher tax refunds,
President Trump has brushed aside the
idea that rising costs will hurt
Republicans at the ballot box this
November. Pertinent to the conversation
this week in particular as several
states hold primaries. Instead,
President Trump is saying that this will
be a short-term disruption adding in an
interview over the weekend in part,
"Quote, I'm not going to let the
election determine what's going to
happen with the war in Iran." But
escalation at this point remains very
much on the table as the White House's
patience wears thin. And Axios is now
reporting that President Trump is set to
convene his national security team
tomorrow to discuss potentially resuming
military action. John, over the weekend
Iranian state media had reported that
there were some red lines in the US's
proposal that it will not accept
including that the US has put forward
that there will not be payments for war
damages and that less than a quarter of
Iran's frozen assets will be unfrozen.
So far, the US has not commented on
these reports, but the sides appear
publicly very far apart.
>> Tena, thank you. Tena Kente, Danny
Washington, D.C. To build on this, Terry
Haines of Pan Gea Policy. Terry, welcome
back to the program. Let's set the
stage. You're a Republican in a tight
race facing down a midterm election.
What are you thinking about the
messaging coming from the president?
Um, I think the I think the quote's
unfortunate, of course, but the the
context can be built on if I'm if I'm
that person.
Um, you know, the president's ultimate
point here is that kind of tightly bound
around the the quote in question is that
you can't ever you can't let Iran have a
nuclear weapon. Republicans are four
square behind the president in that.
And
so I think you can make that case and
and and push with voters number one.
Number two, there's only you know, a
handful of races, a dozen or more that
are
that are genuinely competitive. So the
vast majority of those Republicans may
see this as an irritant but not as some
sort of a an existential setback further
own political futures. Terry though, are
they potentially at risk of making the
same mistakes that Biden administration
made?
Oh, sure, always.
I think it's much less likely that they
make that sort of
they make those sorts of errors
principally because they understand
better than the Biden people did that
they're going to that they're going to
go need to make the economic case number
one and and it's linked to geopolitics.
And number two, that people by and large
aren't convinced. The Biden people you
know, kind of like to conclude
themselves and talk about how you know,
if as other administrations did too in
the past that if only you know, people
understood a little bit better and sure
they will and all the rest and kind of
relying on faith. These folks aren't
going to rely on faith. I think that's a
bit of a difference. Terry, how are they
doing geopolitically? The Treasury
Secretary's at the G7 Finance Ministers
meeting and he came out and he said that
they call upon G7 and all their allies
in the rest of the world to follow
sanctions regimes. At the same time,
when the president left Beijing, he said
he was going to consider lifting
sanctions on Chinese firms that are
buying Iranian crude. Which is it?
>> [laughter]
>> Um, you know, I'm a I'm a big believer
in Emerson's consistency is the
hobgoblin of little minds when it comes
to politics. And
in this case, I think it might be a
little bit of both. Of course, what the
president's doing is carrot and stick
whereas what Bevin is doing is a little
bit more stick to try to get the allies
to stick together. How important is it
that the US clarifies its stance on
Taiwan after the president said that he
might think about delaying some of the
sales that the US has promised to the
nation the region?
Um, you know, I think
I think Taiwan's right to be nervous,
but I think Taiwan's right to be nervous
at least since
Biden pulled the United States out of
Afghanistan, frankly, because the that
led to perceptions of a power vacuum in
the Asia-Pacific region that are still
with us today. So, I'm not blaming Biden
like I'm not whataboutism here. I'm just
saying this goes back years. This isn't
a situation the president is creating.
So, I think Taiwan's entirely right to
be nervous. At the same time, I think
the president
the president's a little bit less
a little bit more ambiguous, frankly,
rather than a less because you got a
situation here where there's no
there's no change to the bottom line.
And number one, number two, the what the
president's doing is saying what people
already knew to be true that he's
considering
particular arm sales. So, we'll see
where this goes, but I point out that
there's a linkage here between what goes
on in the Strait of Hormuz, China's
ability to tell its client state Iran,
"Look, you better cool it and open the
strait." And well, you know, exactly how
things proceed whether it be on Taiwan
or trade and tech for that matter. Do
you have a sense who within the cabinet
of President Trump is the guiding light
right now in all of this? Or is it
really President Trump? I mean, does
anyone have an edge in what the overall
goal is or what the overall strategy?
Um, I look to
I look to Bessen economically. I look to
Rubio as far as far as the diplomacy
goes, but
you know, but this is very much very
much the president, you know, with those
particular whisperers on board and kind
of helping to guide. Terry, what did we
get out of the China summit? I spoke to
Ambassador Greer there. He said he gives
China a passing grade when it comes to
rare earths, but still admitted to what
I said we hear from companies, which is
that China continues to drag its feet.
What did the United States actually walk
away with?
Uh you know, I think what it what they
won I think we don't know yet. Uh and
because and that's why I say that uh
markets need to watch the the strait
really because for for trade and tech as
much as for oil. Uh
China has made much in the past 3 to 4
weeks about saying that they think the
strait should be open.
Uh
Iran is China's client state. Uh you
can't put too fine a point on that. And
uh
as a result, what you end up with is a
situation where either China can tell uh
Iran that it needs to come to some sort
of an understanding or not, and that's
going to be a directional signal for the
entire China United States competitive
relationship, whether it be
geopolitically or uh or frankly in terms
of whether the summit result is some
sort of a continuation of a colder truce
that's existed for more than a year, or
whether we're going to get to something
that's uh that's a little more
directionally positive.
>> Terry, are you suggesting there might be
an agreement here that's just not been
talked about publicly yet?
Oh, sure. Yeah. I'm I'm Yeah, I'm
suggesting saying that absolutely out
loud. Uh you know, you get a lot of
people on on your air, other air, uh
you know, from past administrations kind
of you know, John I'll speak English
English for a minute, kind of boffins
who uh you know, work in uh work in
trade or somewhere saying, "Well, you
know, it's not like the old days where
there used to be agreements and whatever
else before the leaders met." Well,
that's true, but uh
but but what's happening here, I think,
is is a world where the lack of
agreements, the lack of progress over
periods of years, over
uh trade deals, for example, uh led to
the kind of difficulties uh
geopolitically and geoeconomically
that we see today. Leaders of all
stripes want to speed that up. And
because they speed that up, you know,
it's kind of a situation where, you
know, their their behavior at the
summits and and agreements at the
summits dictate future performance in
the markets rather than the other way
around. I'm bilingual, English English,
American English. Sorry, thank you.
Appreciate it. Sorry, I didn't mean to
catch you off guard. Sorry, [laughter]
thank you. Any evidence of that
agreement taking place? Not yet. I mean,
I think we have to wait to be seen what
happens the next few weeks. Terry is
right. We'll get more of a readout now,
potentially the next few weeks,
potentially what happened behind closed
doors. One thing that is interesting,
Mohammad Gallibaf, who's one of the
negotiators on the Iranian side, was
over the weekend appointed to envoy for
China. So, potentially, and he's one
that, you know, he watches Bloomberg
Surveillance sometimes cuz he's
literally steals quote from quotes from
people like Jeff Currie after watching
our interview. So, he's someone who's
interested in the oil and oil market.
Watch this space. [music] We'll stay on
top of that story. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Sarah Kunz
of Cleo Capital as investors await
Nvidia earnings. And we'll check out
Nvidia in the premarket, firmer this
morning, down on Friday following a
7-day [music] run where that stock
rallied 20%
which in Nvidia terms is about a
trillion dollars. More on that in just a
moment from New York City. Good morning.
Stocks down again this morning. We're
negative by 0.4% on the S&P, down about
a third on the Nasdaq on Friday, the
biggest one-day loss going back to the
end of March, but still just about
squeezing out a seventh consecutive
weekly gain on the S&P, the [music]
longest since December 2023. One name to
look at in the premarket, let's check it
out together, Nvidia. Nvidia in the
premarket this morning up by about 0.7%
down on Friday by some 4%. That's about
$250 billion in market cap, which sounds
like a lot of money. It is. 1 trillion
is a whole lot more. We had a 20% move
on Nvidia over 7 days heading into
Friday. So, the move up way, way bigger
than the small move down. So, I love
that we used to think that $5 trillion
for a market cap for a company was big
cuz we're actually looking at $6
trillion for Nvidia based on this $900
billion 20-day rally in the name. People
are now waking up to the fact that
they're going to be huge beneficiaries
of any kind of cap ex cycle. And the
earnings that we've gotten so far have
exceeded expectations pretty
consistently [music] across the
hyperscaler board with the exceptions of
of a few laggards. How long can this
continue? What do they have to deliver?
Does it have to be just another, you
know, leather jacket and some wonderful
vibes? Does it have to be some sort of
new development? Does it have to be the
H200 chip? [music] What can Jensen Huang
say to materially change this other than
believe the face, it is changing the
world, and the orders are strong?
>> It seems to be in the hands of others,
right? Anthropic, OpenAI. It's the
announcements that the Anthropic's of
this world [music] make that have really
driven the whole ecosystem in the last 2
months.
>> Yeah, the race, the existential race to
try to remain superior when it comes to
some of these skills. How much can
Nvidia really say when it really does
lie in the hands of others? And frankly,
[music] it's sort of a sentiment driver,
too. I mean, this is How do you How do
you evaluate whether it's worth $6
trillion or $6.1 trillion? Exactly.
>> Vibes. I mean, how how else are people
evaluating this? Vibes are real
earnings. The stock is up by 0.7% at the
pre-market. The earnings drop on [music]
Wednesday. Look out for that. Want to
check out the bond market, check out the
moves this morning, and think about some
of the levels we're at. 2's [music]
north of 4%. Big gap opening up now
between where the policy rate is and
where the market is, at least on a
2-year relative to the policy rate at
the Federal Reserve. And a lot more
people starting to come round to the
idea that yes, maybe we might have to
hike interest rates, but even if we
don't, they might have to signal
something close. [music] On 10s, this is
where things get more interesting. 460,
new highs for the year. Yields up
another basis points on 30s, up another
basis point or two, 513. We haven't seen
these kind of levels going all the way
back to 2007 at the very long end of the
yield curve. And check it out globally.
Lisa went through some of the numbers
for the 10-year. These are the numbers
for the 30-year. For Germany, the
highest since 2011. For the UK, [music]
the highest since the 1990s. For Japan,
the long end of the curve on 30s, the
highest on record with some big moves
overnight. [music]
>> Which is the reason why it's hard to see
the US market really diverging
meaningfully and coming down. This is
the reason why so many different central
banks are contemplating rate hikes even
in Europe despite the fact that the
growth trajectory is that much lower
than in the United States. At what point
do you have to see rate hikes in order
to tame the bond market? And at what
point is the bond market pricing in not
just stagflation, but re-acceleration?
Because you cannot have sustainable
yields at these levels unless you have
commensurate [music] growth as well.
Does AI fuel the growth that allows
yields to remain high as the rest of the
economy really struggles?
>> Can we live with it? Can we live with
those levels? Can we live with this
crude at about 110 [music]
on Brent? WTI around 106 and advance
again this morning higher by some 1%.
>> Well, it depends who you ask. The
American people certainly, if you look
at polling, are not liking the higher
gas prices. This from AAA. Travelers are
preparing to hit the road in record
numbers next week and drivers will be
facing the highest Memorial Day gas
prices in 4 years. So, they expect
record number of people paying
>> [music]
>> very sky-high prices when it comes to
gasoline. Brent crude front end of the
futures curve, 110, just hanging out
there this morning, just kind of stuck
there, north of $100 a barrel. That's
the price action. Let's get you some top
stories on our radar this morning.
President Donald Trump issuing a new
warning to Iran, writing in a Truth
Social post that Tehran better get
moving fast or there won't be anything
left. The post coming just hours after
drones targeted nuclear plant in the
UAE. Elsewhere, China's economy seeing a
slowdown in growth across the board.
Industrial production slowing to a
nearly three-year low as investors call
into question Beijing's reluctance to
add to economic stimulus. And finally,
the Manchester mayor and prime minister
hopeful, Andy Burnham, making a bid to
reassure markets. Burnham telling
British media he supports the current
limits on borrowing and spending, as
well as a plan to lower the nation's
debt. Putting this into perspective, the
reason why the bond market got very
nervous about Mayor Burnham was because
he previously said the government the
government's economic approach
left the country, quote, in hock to the
bond markets. People said, "You don't
respect us. We will burn you." And or
now you have him coming back and say
this saying this. Let me say this really
clearly, I support the fiscal rules
saying there's got to be fiscal
discipline, talking about rock-solid
public finances are crucial to any plan.
How he gets there still is a question
mark. What kind of commitment he has to
this, again, he seems to be a
shapeshifter, as I've learned
extensively over the weekend in
different kinds of reading. Nonetheless,
the bond market feels seen, and so
there's a little bit of calm. Well, they
want to also make sure that this
individual isn't going to be Liz Truss
part two, which is what some of them are
talking about. I spoke to Guy Johnson
earlier this morning. He said the market
is definitely worried that he could be
left of Keir Starmer, will raise taxes
on wealthy, and increase unfunded
borrowing. At the same time, he says as
the mayor of Manchester, he's fairly
business-friendly. So, to your point,
maybe this individual is a little bit of
a shapeshifter.
>> There's two things I'll say about this.
One's on the race, and two is on the
bond market. Let's start with the race.
This is not over and done with. Yeah.
There's still a by-election to take
place, and this is a seat that voted
overwhelmingly leave back in 2016. And
this is an individual who needs to
answer a lot of questions about where he
thinks the UK should sit with regards to
Europe. It's going to be a lot of
pressure on him in the next few weeks.
So, that's the race. One, two, the bond
market. It doesn't matter for me right
now who the prime minister is, who the
leader of the Labour Party will be,
because the hard decisions will never be
made until the alternative is worse. And
I've said this a few times. What am I
talking about? When I say until the
alternative is worse, I mean when they
have no choice but to make the difficult
decisions that will be deeply unpopular
with the general public. That
alternative will be when this bond
market pressure builds and builds to the
point that they've got no choice. So
you've got
two scenarios right now for me in the
near term. Either slow decay or very
fast decay, but ultimately you end up in
the same destination. They won't do the
hard things, either party,
doesn't matter who the leader will be,
until the alternative is worse. Now if
you can come up with a better solution
to all of this, I'd love to hear it, but
at the moment that's the only one I can
think of. The pressure becomes so great
in the bond market, they have to do
things like cut entitlements, cut
spending across the board, mean test
things, start to do things that they
don't even want to think about because
they know they won't get elected. Right
now, the bond market is tending to agree
with you. People talk about the Liz
Truss moment in 2022. So far, you've
seen bond markets at the same levels
during that Liz Truss moment. Liz Truss
lasted 3 days, then it was Rishi Sunak
who also got pushed out, then you've got
Keir Starmer who's getting pushed out. I
mean, who is going to actually be able
to stay there until there is no other
alternative? Right now, the bond market
seems to be moving in the same
direction, price down, yields up.
>> Did you inspire the Bloomberg morning
quote today? Margaret Thatcher, if you
can't afford it, you can't have it.
There you go.
You know,
it's true. It's true. And the the line
that I've heard from Burnham, Matt
Burnham on the on the bond market, we
talked about this last week. If you
don't want to be
driven by what's happening in fixed
income, don't borrow the money to begin
with.
Don't borrow the money to begin with.
You can hate the bond market, but when
you owe money, it ultimately will rule
you. Period, full stop.
>> Let's talk about tech. Much better
story. Nvidia shares recovering after
snapping a 7-day rally on Friday. The
next test for the chip maker due
Wednesday with first quarter results.
Sara Contes of Cleo Capital writing,
"This earnings is unlikely to have
last-minute surprises. Consensus is
there's still a bit more upward space
for the stock." Sara joins us now for
more. Sarah, welcome to the program.
What kind of things will you be looking
for on Wednesday?
I'm most interested in what's going to
happen on a go-forward basis. Um, I
think we know Jensen. We know that he's
very skilled. Uh, right now, he's likely
to get that $6 trillion valuation cuz
the market wants it probably almost more
than he does. Um, so I'm curious though
about their forward revenue forecast
because we are seeing a weakening in the
overall AI story and they are a huge
chapter of that story. Sarah, bigger
picture, there's a line that stuck out
to me in your notes. If we have to start
paying what AI costs, we may use less of
it. Can you just build on that just a
little bit more? How important is that
line to your outlook? So, so, you know,
we saw with AI with OpenAI, they closed
Sora. Uh, what a lot of us didn't
realize when we were trying repeatedly
to make bad videos last year on it, um,
is it it was costing up to $5 per
15-second video. And if somebody said to
you, "Hey, every time you hit refresh on
that video, give me another $5." Even if
you can afford it, you're probably not
going to spend that. And so, as the real
cost of these things get passed on to
consumers, as we see sort of a a push up
in the cost of tokens, the cost of
subscriptions, um, I think you're going
to find that for a lot of people and
even enterprise, they're going to use a
bit less of it. Are we seeing any
evidence of that, Sarah, given the fact
that a lot of big companies are still
pouring billions of dollars into even
experimental, uh, uses of some of this
technology of fear of being left behind?
Well, I I I think it's fear of being
left behind, but more practically, it's
fear of the stock price being left
behind. Um, we're seeing right now this
fascinating correlation. People like
Microsoft have a leaderboard saying,
"Hey, how much money can you burn,
right?" And if you give me a big enough
campfire, I can burn a lot of money
quickly. Um, and so, I I as those things
decouple, um, as as enterprise leaders
start to say, maybe we shouldn't just
incentivize our engineers to burn cash,
pretty literally, that you will start to
see some of that pullback. But I think
that that's not going to happen until
the market consistently stops rewarding
these big companies for spending the way
that they are spending. There's no real
evidence that we're getting kind of
better outcomes, better tech, that even
that it's really driving the layoffs. We
just know that right now if you can brag
about how many tokens you're using, the
market has been rewarding you. How
important is it also that Nvidia
ultimately doesn't have a monopoly, but
is certainly has an oligopoly over the
market and it seems like the best the
best consumer, the guys provider of some
of the chips that are being consumed. Do
the competitors have any kind of inroads
to make based on pricing?
Absolutely, and it's not just pricing,
it's also you know, innovation and and
availability. Availability I think is
going to be slightly less of a concern
as as we sort of potentially will see
demand weaken. But the reality is that
there are a lot of really good chip
companies out there in terms of
designing chips. The real sort of
bottleneck, the real control is at the
more Taiwan semiconductor level because
they're kind of the only people in the
world who can reliably make the chips.
And Nvidia has had an incredible run.
They're going to continue to be a great
company. Do I think that they are nearly
as far out ahead in the lead as they
were even a year ago? The answer is
obviously no. You know, Google is is
very deep in this space as are a lot of
other big and smaller companies. So are
you right that it's going to be a
temperature check on how the market
feels post China trip? Doesn't seem like
Nvidia got anything from this China
trip. Is the market potentially going to
sell off on that?
I think that that's kind of the point.
Um, will long say that Jensen is the
most skilled politician of our age. Um,
he's probably the only man who can
consistently keep Xi Jinping and Donald
Trump on side. Um, and and I think we
saw some of that politicking with his
last-minute fly-in for the trip. Um, I'm
pretty sure that he is comfortable with
the outcome of it, even if the outcome
kind of felt like nothing, because when
you're between a rock and a hard place,
being able to just sit there might be
the best outcome you can hope for.
Sarah, I appreciate your take going into
a big earnings report. Sarah Kunst of
Cleo Capital on Nvidia. The president,
and maybe this administration holding
one position, it's unclear what China's
position is on those chips.
>> So, the H200s, as of now, China has not
let firms buy, even though the US since
January, this isn't new, since January
said China was allowed to buy them.
We're still waiting for the central
government, the CCP, and Xi Jinping in
the end to say, "Yeah, you can buy these
chips."
>> Stock is up in the premarket by 0.4%
heading into earnings on Wednesday.
Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief. Vani Quinn has more.
Hey, Vani. Hey, John. Thank you.
The World Health Organization declaring
an Ebola outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and in Uganda, an
emergency of international concern due
to cross-border spread. The outbreak is
caused by a rare virus strain which
[music] has no approved vaccine or
treatment.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent is
calling on G7 nations and others to
increase sanctions on Iran. Bessent is
in Paris for a meeting of finance
ministers and central bank governors.
>> [music]
>> He's wrapping up an international trip
that included stops in Japan, South
Korea, and China. [music]
The nation's largest commuter railroad
coming to a halt. Long Island Railroad
workers striking for the first time in
30 years. The MTA is advising people to
work from home [music] if possible with
free shuttle buses and helicopter rides
available as alternatives. And that is
your Bloomberg [music] Brief, John. I
Voney, thank you. Some first world
problems. Helicopter rides available as
alternative. What is Blade offering?
Blade [music] is offering 95 commuter
flights.
95 95 dollars. Okay. It's not bad, is
it? Honestly, it might end up and look,
this is a fantastic marketing scheme.
When I saw that they were doing 95
dollars because people are going to get
on that thing, it's going to take them 5
minutes and they're going to say, "I'm
going to do this." and they're going to
jack the prices up to 500 dollars.
>> I would never get in a helicopter.
Really?
>> For the record. Why? Never going to get
in a helicopter. helicopter or a cruise?
I would get in a helicopter for
different reasons. I was half asleep and
I was actually trying to look at it. I
didn't [music] see 95 dollars on that.
Up next on the program,
bond yields unhinged.
Bond yields definitely feel like they're
getting a bit unhinged. The bond
market's actually starting to say, "Pay
attention to all the dynamics that are
happening." Up next, we catch up with
Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Starting your trading week just a little
bit softer, negative down by 0.4% on the
S&P, down by third on the Nasdaq 100.
Yields are elevated across the curve,
twos, 10s, 30s, twos through 4%. [music]
10s now at 4.60, up by single basis
point. And over in Japan, at one point,
the long end of the curve up by some 20
basis points overnight. That was a messy
session over in Japanese debt markets.
[music] And as Savannah said this
morning, bond yields unhinged.
Bond yields definitely feel like they're
getting [music]
a bit unhinged. The bond market's
actually starting to say, "Pay attention
to all the dynamics that are happening."
Higher oil prices, the potential impact
of debt and deficits not just in [music]
the US but globally, and then the the
overall you know, picture of this war is
not getting resolved anytime soon. So,
here's the latest this morning from the
oats testing [music] fresh multi-year
highs. The stalemate between the US and
Iran fueling inflation fears. Kelsey
Barrow of JP Morgan Asset Management
writing, we wonder if parts of the rates
market are conflating a commodity driven
inflation shock with a broader
inflationary backdrop, something that is
not yet yet been born out in the data.
Kelsey joins us now for more. Kelsey,
good morning. Good morning.
>> Good to see you. We've experienced this
a number of times. We've talked about
it. We had a sell-off back in March. We
had sell-offs under Secretary Yellen
when she was running the Treasury. Bond
market really tested her. How different
is this one compared to those? It does
feel somewhat different, particularly
compared to last year at this time when
we had the sell-off related to
Liberation Day, or even the sell-off in
2022 related to broad-based inflation,
demand-led inflation. And I would say
the big difference that I'm noticing are
the flows. Uh so, if you look back at
last year at this time when fixed income
returns turned negative, you started to
see retail flows also turn negative.
This year, we're not seeing that. If
anything, the demand for fixed income is
accelerating at higher yield levels,
particularly
in credit, and also outside of of
credit, you know, for example, in in
emerging markets.
>> Well, let's isolate one part of fixed
income and we'll talk about Treasuries.
Is that demand broadly even across the
curve, or specific segments of it?
I think it depends on where you are and
what you're looking to hedge, and also
where you're coming from. Um so, you
know, a few years ago, it was all about
talking about moving out of cash. And I
still think looking at valuations
relative to cash is an important way to
anchor yourself
uh in in terms of the valuations of the
fixed income market. So, I look at the
10-year now and we're approaching
[snorts] 100 basis points of spread on
the 10-year Treasury relative to the Fed
funds rate. And that is a pretty
important level historically in terms of
when you're looking at uh forward
returns for fixed income, uh the the
return profile does look a bit more
favorable when you're at these wide of
spreads and these uh steep of curves.
All of these price actions and the money
moving from cash into bonds makes sense
if you have a re-accelerating economy.
If you have an economy that actually is
not in a stagflationary environment at
all, but is actually really uh seeing
positive growth and able to absorb the
higher inflation.
How do you push back against that
scenario, which seems to be priced in
across bonds and across stocks? So, I
would agree there is a risk premium
being priced and that's the reason that
you're seeing the market price in hikes
because if I think about a true hiking
cycle, if the Fed's going to restart a
hiking cycle, they're not just going to
hike once or twice. They're going to
hike multiple times and it's going to be
on the backdrop of a stronger economy.
One where the inflation is not just
narrowly based in commodities, but
spreads to a broader part of the
economy. And I think to make that
conclusion at that at this point, there
really isn't enough in the data to make
that conclusion. So, when I looked at
the CPI and the PPI numbers, yes, face
value, they're not good. Uh, they're not
good for central banks. They're also not
good for consumers uh in terms of what
that means for real incomes. But then
when I break it down in terms of the
components within the PPI, you know, the
big uh upside surprise came from
transportation, which is a function of
commodities. And when I look at CPI,
again, it's really coming from airfares
and gasoline. Um if anything, we're
actually seeing that the the tariff
inflation from last year um
is rolling out of the inflation data the
way that central bankers would have
expected them to. So, how do we see when
that cyclical turn is coming, if it's
coming? I would need to see a
re-acceleration in wage growth. And
that's not necessarily something we're
seeing now. Can you see a
re-acceleration in the economy without
the economy participating? And I mean
this by the idea of AI and the overlay
and all of the spending that has
contributed to inflation in a number of
different components and potentially for
consumers as well, without the consumers
feeling good, without them seeing huge
wage increases, without them really
increasing their spending materially?
Yeah, so we've been talking a lot about
this idea of multiple R-stars.
All of this debate around interest rates
right now, I think the question people
are coming to us and asking is, is this
sustainable? Can the economy really
withstand 30-year yields above 5%? And
you know, the answer really depends
because if you look at certain parts of
the US economy, like the housing market
or look at investment outside of AI, the
answer is no. Um I don't think that
these interest rate levels are are
helpful. If anything, they are fairly
restrictive for parts of the economy.
But other parts of the economy,
particularly the CapEx build around AI,
um you know, is really not very
sensitive to interest rate policy and
that seems to be uh a fairly immune. Um
and we're seeing it in terms of the
issuance patterns within investment
grade and high yield. All of the data
center issuance that is coming out, it's
changing the the components of the
index, uh the the makeup of the index,
and is generally being met with uh
strong demand, even at you know, at even
at higher yield levels. What do you
think the Fed's North Star is?
I would say it's a little difficult to
say and this is the reason why um I
think there's another reason why yields
are elevated, which is we're going
through a transition where we need to
understand how the new leader of the Fed
is going to approach this backdrop. Now,
if I were to assume continuity, I would
assume that this is still more like last
year in the sense that we faced a shock
and it caused the central bank to stay
on hold. Not necessarily to to start a
hiking cycle as a result of uh commodity
led inflation, but to maintain policy at
its current level. But, you know, this
is going to be a new regime and we're
going to need to understand, you know,
how he approaches these complicated
dynamics.
>> in. If he chooses to anchor front end
rates, does it leave the long end
vulnerable? What's the relationship
between the front end and the longer end
of the curve?
Well, I actually think that if he were
to uh be more aggressive in terms of
hiking into a commodity led inflation
shock, that that would actually uh
result in a curve flattening. So, yields
in the long end would be capped if if
anything here. Um so, we'll see. Can I
reverse engineer that?
>> Yeah.
So, if he does choose to anchor front
end rates, does it leave the long end
vulnerable?
Oh, so if if he keeps uh Precisely.
Okay. Um it it depends. I would say what
you need to watch there would be
inflation expectations.
Um so, so far inflation expectations
market is not saying that this is going
to be a broad-based
inflationary regime.
Uh but, if you start to see 5-year
5-year inflation swaps start to move up,
30-year inflation break-evens start to
move up, that's an indication of a dov-
dovish policy error, which is
essentially what you're describing.
>> how close we are to that. Cassie,
[music] it's good to see you. Lots to
think about. Cassie Barrow there of JP
Morgan Asset Management. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Dankworth
House of Solace Alternative Asset
Management, Sucharita Codali of
Forrester, and Francisco Blanch of Bank
of America from New York City. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
The economic surprises are trending up,
not down.
>> The incoming data in the US has been
more resilient.
>> There's a lot of uncertainty about where
this goes.
>> There's more pain yet to come.
>> We don't think we're at a tipping point,
but I do believe that the risks now
[music] are heightened. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz, [music] and Anne
Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action looks like this.
Equities pulling back once again with
down by 0.4% on the S&P, softer by about
0.38 on the Nasdaq 100. In the bond
market, yields elevated once again, 460
[music]
on 10s, numbers we've rarely seen at the
long end of the yield curve in multiple
decades on a 30-year, 513 this morning
[music] with crude up on Brent and WTI.
Brent crude 110 a little bit earlier in
the session. We hold those levels. WTI
around 107. Going [music] into this week
ahead, stacked with earnings. A read on
tech from Nvidia, a read on the consumer
from Target and Walmart. [music] Which
is going to be more important? Well,
maybe for the economy and the sentiment
survey coming out of the University of
Michigan, it's going to be Walmart and
Target, potentially as well as Home
Depot and Lowe's, particularly when it
pertains to the housing market. When it
comes to the market overall, it is
Nvidia, first, foremost, and last. And
this is ultimately the story of the
moment, which is how independent is the
market from the underlying economy in
the era of artificial intelligence. Do
we have, as you've talked about it,
two-speed economy that doesn't listen to
interest rates and doesn't listen to
consumer spending?
>> point, how resilient is it in the face
of these moves in interest rates? Twos,
10s, and 30s elevated across the curve,
not just stateside, but worldwide. And a
real test starting to build now for the
incoming Fed chair, Kevin Warsh.
>> Absolutely. And I think it was actually
interesting that as Kevin [music] Warsh
was
going through key hurdles in the Senate,
the president sat down with Fortune
magazine. This is before he went to
>> [music]
>> China, and they released that interview
this morning. And this is what the
president had to say, basically [music]
conceding that it's okay. We might have
to wait for the data to come in, and
understanding that higher energy costs
might actually [music] mean higher
inflation. And you said it earlier, that
quote the president said about I don't
think about the financial situations of
Americans. He [music] was talking about
when he was dealing with Iran and
nuclear Iran. But at the same time,
we're going to Memorial Day weekend,
$4.51 [music] on a gallon of gasoline,
that's going to hurt.
>> You know what they're doing in
Washington and across the country.
They'll edit out the context and [music]
replay the epicenter of that particular
comment over and over again going into
the midterms. Add for the Philip Federal
Reserve, things have [music] become much
more finely balanced.
Just check out the conversation we had
with Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management about 10 minutes ago. Really
enlightening. Are we on the edge of a
dovish [music] policy mistake or a
hawkish policy mistake as some of these
central banks? And the [music] answer to
that much more finely balanced than it
was a month ago.
>> Maybe the answer is yes. I mean, they
are damned if they do and they are
damned if they don't. Ultimately, it
depends also [music] on the economy, and
this is really key, especially when it
comes to a place like Europe, where
continental Europe is facing a much
bigger oil price shock. At the same
time, a much lower in growth rate going
forward. How much are their hands tied
when it comes to rate hikes? At the same
time, they are signaling rate hikes more
than the US Federal Reserve is. So, try
to square that picture. In the United
States, US this question, and I think
that is a really important one. A lot of
people have been talking about it. How
much is the move in the long end because
the Fed has not taken away the easing
bias that it has. How much is this a
market that believes that this is a
compromised Fed chair coming in who will
be overly dovish and is skewed to the
dovish mistake? How much work does he
[music] have to push against that?
>> of work, one, two, I don't know to the
other question. And I think this is part
of the reason you've seen this move in
the bond market, just a lack of clarity
around the incoming reaction function of
the incoming [music] Federal Reserve
chair, Kevin Warsh, and we need that
clarity and you might not get it until
the news conference a month away. Yeah,
again, incredibly important. We are
going to be hearing from a whole bunch
of other Fed officials this week. Do we
start [music] to see the importance
being reflected in their speeches about
removing the easing bias and will that
be enough to curtail [music] the move in
the long end?
>> free pass, hasn't he? You mentioned the
comments from the president. He's got a
free pass. Treasury secretary's backed
away [music]
on this issue. The president's backed
away on this issue, just giving the
incoming Fed chair a bit more space to
say, "Sure, drop the easing bias. Let's
get back to neutral and figure it out
through the summer." They're giving him
a lot of room in the beginning in the
first few months to really just
basically get used to being the Fed
chair and not having to rush to cut
rates. The president [music] knows you
might not be able to do it while this
war is still ongoing.
>> 5:13 on 30s this morning. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Dan Greenhaus
of Solus as the bond market looks for
stability. Sucharita Codali of Forrester
previewing this week's retail earnings
and Francisco Blanch of Bank of America
as fresh threats to Iran has crude
rising. We begin this hour with stocks
facing pressure following a sell-off in
the bond market. Dan Greenhaus of Solus
Alternative Asset Management writing,
"I'm not as worried as some others.
Since 2024, the 10-year has averaged
425. We're not that much higher than
average." Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, good morning. Good to see you. I
wrote that a couple days ago. Uh, things
have changed.
>> [laughter]
>> We've moved a bit since then, so yes.
>> Okay. Has your view changed? No, I
listen, uh, no, no, it hasn't changed
very much. Uh, we're at 460 on the
10-year. We've been here a couple of
times over the last few years. If I
wanted to be cute, you could argue that
around 460, 470, you've had some periods
of momentary equity weakness. And today,
with the S&P basically at a high,
borderline overbought, you could
certainly have a 5 or even 6, 7%
correction right about now. Um I think
the question becomes is this a secular
shift for investors right now? And I
don't think
I I don't think anything new is being
priced into the bond market per se.
Um
inflation obviously is is turning up a
little bit at levels above what the Fed
would prefer.
This is I think a lot of people have
been arguing for this for a while. The
bond market seems to be catching on to
it now. But you also have, as I'm
talking, I found another point I want to
mention. You also have idiosyncratic
uh differences across the globe. You
have the political instability in UK.
You have the infrastructure bill in
Germany. You've got a supplementary bill
now coming out of Japan. The US is
dealing with some version of all of
that. So so there are idiosyncratic
idiosyncrasies across the world. But
note, at the 10-year 460, am I secularly
worried for investments? I I I I don't
think But let's just park equities just
for a moment, stand fixed income, and
look at these numbers, not just in the
UK, but in the US as well. I want us to
talk about the US specifically.
Typically in bond market sell-offs, they
become somewhat self-limiting. You get
to a level where people just start to
freak out about growth, and then things
start to reverse. This time, I wonder
whether you need corrective actions from
authorities. And by authorities, I mean
the Treasury. And I'm thinking back to
the sell-off under Yellen. Yellen had to
come out and ultimately tighten up
duration, bringing a lot of issuance to
the front end of the curve. And that
kind of corrective action just put a lid
on yields, and move the bond market in
the opposite direction. Does this fall
on the desk of Secretary Besson, or is
it someone else's job to do something
about this? I don't think it falls on on
on Secretary Besson's desk. You could
probably throw 2018 in there, also, when
the bond market needed um
the chair to come out and say, "Maybe we
aren't so far from neutral or something
like that. Um
uh
Listen,
the inflation story is very real.
Uh
I think something that that we've
discussed on air and I other people have
as well is the oil story, which is a big
part of this. Specifically, the
sanguinity,
which isn't a word, but we'll use it.
Uh uh of many market participants about
about what was going on in the Middle
East. And the argument I and others have
been making is this can only go on so
long cuz you're going the buffers that
were in place prior to the war's start
are going to run out. We had record oil
on water, record inventories. Uh the
market was already 1 and 1/2 2 million
barrels oversupplied. You see this
morning, uh I think it was the IEA came
out and said inventories are being drawn
down at a record pace that we know this.
Um oil inventories in the US are are are
below 2025 levels, below 5-year average
levels for distillates, for gasoline,
for for crude oil, for for just about
everything. So, you are
at the moment where you are really
running out of time. And so, if you
don't get the strait open, if you can't
get the let 10 13
million barrels that are missing back uh
back on the market, and even that's
going to take some time. Uh there's just
a
structural upward pressure on oil
prices, which has a very high
correlation, obviously, with headline
inflation. And so, I think the story is
coming that we've been telling for
several months is or several weeks, I
should say, is is really starting to
come to the fore now. When does this
toxic brew paint a negative picture for
risk assets, given the fact that they've
been divorced from everything? So, you
know, I'm not sure that I would go so
far as to say risk assets have been
divorced. And what do I mean by that?
Well, obviously, the broad indices are
at a high, but tech is doing a lot of
work right now. And I think one of my
favorite stats that I'm not sure people
realize, although I'm also not sure that
it has much value, is that there are
more stocks in the S&P 500 down 20%
right now than are up more than the
index. So, the index let's unpack that
for a second. The S&P is up called it 8
and a quarter percent year-to-date. It's
about 170 companies in the S&P that are
up more than 8.2% or so. At any given
moment, you probably want that to be
half and half. Half are beating the
index, half are trailing the index.
Right now, it's only about 170 stocks.
190 stocks in the index or so are down
20% from the high. So, there is
underneath the surface
weakness that is related to Iran and the
higher interest rates and uncertainty
and tariffs, etc., etc.
>> breadth and people have been talking
about this that it's been a really
narrow leadership. Can that narrow
leadership continue to outperform if
this Federal Reserve signals that it's
going to hike rates?
Uh I think so well,
for a long time I would have said I
think so because the AI story has been
so interest rate insensitive. But
obviously, as we all know and we've
discussed, we are shifting into a period
where you've got hundreds of billions of
dollars of debt issuance coming to
market for for a lot of the
hyperscalers. Oracle being the poster
child for this. I think at issuance this
year is probably going to be somewhere
around 225 billion, 240 billion,
something like that. So, obviously
interest rates become more of a story
for this. But this is a secular
investment theme uh whether we like it
or not. And by we, I mean bearish
people, even though I'm not in that
camp. But like um it's happened it's not
You're like we, pointing at me, Carrie.
No, well, no. I It's [laughter] not me.
I I just like You're like Lisa. There
There are There are people who are who
are Listen, we Now we can shift into the
bubble conversation, but um this is
happening. It's It's They're Every
single company
every conference call, every
uh conference appearance, demand exceeds
supply. That's from the hyperscalers to
the semiconductor to the comm equipment.
You've got names like Lumentum and Ciena
joining the party. Ford is an AI stock
now. So So there's a lot going on here
that thus far is completely born out in
the investment and the demand data. And
when I say whether we like it or not, I
mean there are people who keep
pretending like this isn't
as big as it appears to be. It It It is.
It's a obviously an important secular
investment theme. And so again, if
interest rates go higher, if the Fed
starts hiking rates, I mean that's
obviously going to change the calculus a
little bit. Do I think Meta is going to
invest less if if the Fed raises rates
25 basis points, which I don't think
it's going to happen? No, I I don't
think that changes their CapEx at all.
Well, you also say that valuations for
many large companies remain short of the
bubble territory.
For a lot of these companies. So So who
do you think is in that bubble
territory?
>> Well, I don't know. Look,
Well, you said let's shift the
conversation.
>> Let's Let's um
So I I don't want to say It's hard to
know who's in a bubble because you look
at something like Micron for instance
and I have said 100 times, I will say
again, so I'm not a particularly big
tech investor, but Micron has gone
vertical.
PE ratio is 10, let's say. It might even
be lower than that.
Nvidia, every time they report and the
stock goes straight up, we comment about
how valuation is coming in. Uh
in 2000, the Nasdaq was trading at 125
times trailing earnings, something like
that. We don't know we're even close as
a broad market to that. At the same
time, we have to be honest with
ourselves, just cuz you're not at 2000
bubble territory doesn't mean you're not
in a bubble or you can't go lower. And
so I I think some people take too much
comfort in, "Well, it's not the dot com
bubble." That doesn't do me as an
investor much good. The question is,
when I buy a a stock, a credit, whatever
it might be, when I invest in a company,
am I likely to realize the expected
earning stream that I'm forecasting? And
I think one of the issues that investors
have right now is the market has surged
to the highs that it is is not only is
the first quarter earnings growth number
exceptional, obviously, even when when X
out the investment income at the
hyperscalers, but the next couple of
quarters are expected to be exceptional
as well.
And I just there you are I don't want to
say you're priced for perfection in the
stock market. I'm not even sure I've
ever uttered those words, but you're
you're assuming a lot of good stuff in
the stock market right now that has to
come to pass
with the again the caveat that this
investment theme is continuing unabated
by all accounts.
>> I didn't hear bubble in this
conversation. I heard inflation
repeatedly. When you talk about the
economy being supply constrained
and all this demand coming into the
market that's price insensitive backed
by some of the richest companies on the
planet. I just hear inflation, don't
you?
Yeah, well and that's why some of the
numbers are what some I mean you look at
some of the import numbers on the
computer and accessories
even in the in the CPI and the PCE type
numbers some of that stuff is
interest rate insensitive if you will
and that's that's obviously putting up
with pressure. There's obviously the
normal stuff airline fares etc. etc. The
inflation story is particularly
interesting in the sense that
obviously inflation is is above the
Federal Reserve's target and has been
for many years five years. We know we
know this complete failure in that
sense.
At the same time I'm glad Kevin Warsh
brought up the alternative inflation
measures because this is something that
I have followed
or used in my analysis more closely than
I think a lot of other people have. The
the idea that we would simply restrict
ourselves
I'm building up to a point that we would
simply restrict ourselves to two items
food and energy
when in any given month any item could
be quite volatile. Why is that a better
measure
than
Xing out the top 15% movers in any month
or just using a trimmed mean or median
whatever whatever alternative measure
you want to use.
I think those are inherently intuitively
better. I know some of the data that
we've done and other people have done
prove that it may not be
econometrically better. It may be
econometrically equal, but I think just
conceptually
and and why I mentioned that is some of
those measures are lower. And so I think
when you look at inflation through that
prism, I'm a little less worried than
some other people because I don't see
inflation as being quite the
sort of Damocles hanging over the
consumer as as maybe
>> So I would say in response, the concept
is great. I agree with you. The optics
are poor and the timing's really weak
because this will be dressed up in a
push to do the president's bidding to
keep interest rates lower than they
otherwise would be. And I think that
contributes on the margin, I'm not
saying it's certainly the bulk of the
move, but contributes on the margin to
the uncertainty around this particular
Federal Reserve and what it means for
this bond market right now and the
uncertainty around front end rates and
what it means for the long end. Because
if you do get a Fed share that comes in
too early talking about these issues for
good reasons, I believe they are for
good reasons, you start to get a market
that worries about the optics and the
optics are the Fed share will be
unwilling to anchor inflation
expectations. Therefore, I in the bond
market right now don't want to put in a
bid. I want to sort of disengage and let
tens run, let 30s run, which to some
extent is what's been what is what has
been happening in the last week or so.
>> Yeah, this is a reason why it's also
going to be important to hear what the
other Fed officials are going to say and
how much they back those measures. I
think Chris Waller's actually going to
be a really important voice going
forward to
validate in some ways some of these
moves and he's talked about that, the
need to change certain things including
the inflation metric.
>> 460 on tens this morning. Dan's going to
stick with us. Dan Greenhaus there at
Solus Alternative Asset Management.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Bonnie has more. Hey
Bonnie. Hey John, thank you. Former UK
Health Secretary Wes Streeting making a
pitch for a potential leadership bid. As
part of his proposal, Streeting calling
for Britain to rejoin the European Union
saying leaving the EU was a catastrophic
mistake.
Swatch closing stores and canceling
launches of its Audemars Piguet pocket
watch collaboration after massive crowds
raised safety concerns. The company shut
nearly 20 stores throughout the United
States on Saturday and canceled events
in other countries. [music]
Shares of Ryanair bouncing back from
early losses in Dublin trading. The
budget carrier warning of rising costs
this year if unhedged jet fuel prices
remain at current levels. Ryanair CEO
Michael O'Leary joins surveillance
[music] at 8:15 Eastern. That is your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Fascinating. Thank you. Looking forward
to that conversation in the next hour.
Up next on the program, the nuclear
ultimatum. [music]
The only thing that matters when I'm
talking about Iran, they can't have a
nuclear weapon. It's very simple. Iran
cannot have a nuclear weapon. We're
never going to let that opponent have a
nuclear weapon. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Bloomberg's Tyler
[music] Cowen live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Stacked week of earnings. Check it out.
Tomorrow, Home Depot through [music] the
week more on the retail side of things.
You'll hear from Target and Walmart. The
headline act though, of course, Nvidia
after the closing bell coming up on
Wednesday. Equity futures into all of
that look like this. Pulling back just a
touch on the S&P. We're negative [music]
by 0.4% on the Nasdaq. Down by 0.4%
also. Under surveillance this morning,
the nuclear ultimatum.
Can't let Iran have a nuclear weapon.
It's very simple. Iran cannot have a
nuclear weapon. We're never going to let
that opponent have a nuclear weapon. The
only thing that matters when I'm talking
about Iran, they can't have a nuclear
weapon. I don't think about
Americans financial situation. I don't
think about anybody. I think about one
thing. We cannot let Iran have a nuclear
weapon. So, here's the latest this
morning. President Donald Trump issuing
a new warning to Iran, writing that
Tehran, quote, better get moving fast,
or there won't be anything left.
Bloomberg's Taylor Kendall has the
latest. Hey, Taylor.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, it's
clear that the White House's patience is
wearing thin here as the ceasefire
remains highly fragile, and we saw those
renewed regional risks over the weekend
as the UAE confirmed that a drone hit a
power plant in the country. And Saudi
Arabia says that it intercepted multiple
projectiles that entered its airspace.
Iranian state media the other day
outlined that the latest US proposal is
considered a non-starter in part because
it includes no payments for war damages
and would seek to unfreeze less than a
quarter of Iran's frozen assets. Now,
the US hasn't commented or confirmed
that reporting, but it is very clear
that the gridlock is leading to the
potential that escalation will be put
back on the table. As Axios is now
reporting that President Trump will
convene his national security team
tomorrow to discuss potential military
options. It's very clear that recently
foreign policy has been front and center
with the war in Iran, and the
president's travel to China, but
domestic politics are coming back into
focus this week as a flurry of states
hold their primaries. And while we can't
say so far, actually, that many
Trump-backed Republicans are winning
their Republican contests, at this point
we do know that the war in Iran is
compounding higher prices for voters,
which is the number one issue as we head
into November. Now, President Trump says
that this will be a short-term
disruption in exchange for curbs on
Iran's nuclear program, as you heard uh
just there. But, John, at this point, it
doesn't appear that we are any closer on
getting a clearer timeline on when a
deal could be reached. In fact, Iran's
foreign minister in a briefing earlier
this morning said that uh Iran doesn't
want to talk about the issue of uranium
enrichment. It doesn't want to quote
discuss or compromise on that problem.
Tanak Kandil in the nation's capital.
Tanak, thank you. Dan Greenhaus still
with us. Dan, let's just finish on this
particular story. You alluded to this in
our previous conversation. The for many
investors, there's a sense that perhaps
this story just doesn't matter. Are you
on the side of it doesn't matter yet and
we're closer to the yet?
The oil story? Yeah. Um [clears throat]
Yeah, I think the problem for a lot of
investors is probably that the uh
doomsayers came out immediately saying
this was the end of the world, no
different than liberation day, no
different than Brexit, etc., etc. And so
there is certainly a dis- a level of
disaster exhaustion. When I talk to
investors around around town, there's a
level of disaster fatigue. So so people
can be forgiven for saying, "Oh, you
told us everything was going to So so
with that said though, there is a math
problem.
And the inventory story is where it
comes into fruition. There is only so
much oil to compensate the billion
barrels that are missing.
Um
there's only so much time that can go on
where the 13 million barrels, if you
will, that are that are missing from
global supply can be compensated for
with those buffers. And and I don't I
think the problem is people like me
who've been talking about this, there's
no way to really say for sure because
the buffers
are are hard to to to iron out, but you
are getting to that point. I mean, we
can measure the inventory data.
Observable inventories, again, are
incredibly low. Demand is relatively
unchanged. Yes, Pakistan can shut the
lights off for a little while. Yes, you
can work from home in some Asian
countries, but at some point that those
chickens are going to come home to
roost. And I think listen, it's not like
nothing has happened. Oil prices have
doubled. Before this happened, TI was
50-something dollars. Now it's
100-something dollars. So you've
basically already seen a doubling of oil
prices.
It just hadn't gotten to the $125, $140
level that so many worried about, but it
will get there.
That is a mathematical certainty if this
continues.
>> we have the Persian Gulf Strait
Authority now
launching an X account. Structurally,
hasn't this changed? There's now going
to be a toll you have to pay to go
through the Strait of Hormuz.
>> The the Emiratis and the Saudis are not
going to be okay with that. And at some
point, this is like I'm not a
geopolitical expert.
>> you, but some traders might want to pay
that toll to move product. I
Will pay the toll and should pay the
toll are two different conversations. I
think a lot of people will pay the toll.
Um, it's a tax. I got to get my oil
through, etc., etc. Um, I'll defer to
Helima Croft and the the the people who
are really on the ground in in a sense
that I am not, but I don't everything I
hear, uh, they do not want to pay those
tolls. Dan, it's good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Lots to think about. Dan
Greenhaus, Staff Sergeant Alternative
Asset Management. Crude this morning 110
on Brent WTI around 107. Yeah, and
it really it's the 80 days and the fact
that this is bleeding longer and longer
and at what point is it a step change?
Not necessarily just a slight change,
but a step change in prices that shoot
up to 120 and beyond. Francisco Blanch
coming up from Bank of America. What do
we hit first?
>> Oh, Francisco's coming. He He knows. Who
knows?
What do we hit first? Storage bottoms
in the west? [music]
>> Tank bottoms, problem.
>> Or tank tops in Iran? That conversation
just around the corner. Sitri Godalia
Forrester looking ahead to retail
earnings this week. Tons of them. Home
Depot, Target, Walmart [music] still to
come.
We are coming off the back of the
biggest one-day loss since March [music]
on the S&P 500 and we have some negative
follow through. We're down by 0.5 on the
S&P. We're down by 0.5 on the Nasdaq
100, similar move. On the Russell, the
[music] epicenter for a lot of this is
in the bond market right now. Twos, 10s,
and 30s, new levels to think about.
4.1-ish
at the front end of the curve. 460 on
[music] 10s and 513 on 30s. Yields
higher again across the curve. Yeah, and
this is really stemming from the idea
that you've got higher oil prices and a
response from fiscal authorities, which
is [music] to simply bail out consumers
rather than necessarily uh tighten the
screws or figure out alternatives. It's
sort of the opposite reaction function
that you want to actually curtail demand
and ease the fundamental problem.
Nonetheless, here we are
>> [music]
>> and you're seeing yields respond.
>> Attention to energy. It's fueled in the
move. Brent crude at about 110 is the
front end of the futures curve. 106,
107-ish on WTI this morning. This is
where the pain started. This was the
initial shock in energy and we've been
tracking it as follows: [music]
through energy into rates. Do you see it
in growth? Can we live with this kind of
level of rates right now in bond markets
worldwide [music] without it's
absolutely hammering economic growth?
>> I keep thinking about what Morgan
Stanley uh economist said, [music] which
is this is the pain point right now for
markets because it is not high enough
>> [music]
>> to justify growth fears, but it's not
low enough to take the idea of a Fed
response off the table. In other words,
it creates real inflation [music] that
can be tolerated at least for the time
being based on the fact that consumers
are still spending and there is a sort
of existential spending race uh uh tied
to AI that keeps going regardless of
where rates are. You put those [music]
two things together, this isn't enough
to cause the pain that's necessary to
bring the prices down. Both those
dimensions of this story captured by the
earnings for the week ahead. Nvidia
coming up on Wednesday. The retailers in
between, Home Depot, Target, Walmart
throughout this [music] week. That's the
story right now in fixed income, in
energy, and equities. Let's get you some
top stories on our radar this morning.
The Long Island Railroad workers
striking for the first time in more than
30 years a shutdown of the nation's
largest commuter railroad entering its
third day the MTA advising people to
work from home if possible. That's where
the Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
urging G7 nations to ramp up sanctions
and crackdown on funding the quote
Iranian war machine. This coming as
President Trump expresses frustration
with the state of peace talks telling
Iran the clock is ticking. And finally
Elon Musk gearing up for a historic
SpaceX IPO. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the company could file as
early as this week. SpaceX is seeking to
raise as much as 75 billion on a
valuation of more than 2 trillion
dollars making it the biggest listing of
all time.
>> Following on the enthusiasm that we saw
last week for Cerebras given that
everyone wants to get a piece of their
SpaceX SpaceX is going to be
particularly interesting. Number one
because it's an Elon Musk company and he
always tends to generate a lot of
interest. Number two, it is the biggest
of the big IPOs that are expected. How
much more is the appetite going to be?
And three, the race to space is getting
more and more interesting as people say
we're running out of space for data
centers and other sort of AI build out.
They want to launch energy up into space
whether it's nuclear energy or anything
else. Everybody needs a rocket. Right?
You're seeing this with every single
hyperscaler. They all want a rocket
because they're expecting that space
will have the materials that will have
the space for energy but not no pun
intended. And frankly it'll be the
future of exploration.
>> I spoke to the Blue Origin CEO about
this a few months ago and this is
exactly where their head was at and this
is why they're in this race for SpaceX
is why they're not
>> doing commercial flights anymore because
it is a space race. And not only are
they competing with each other, they're
also competing with the likes of China.
Very interesting that Elon Musk was on
this trip with the president. I also
found it interesting that a
uh we have our reporting in the scoop
but he also said at a summit he's
supposed to attend in person he was
virtually and he said because we got to
get the SpaceX IPO stuff going here
pretty soon. So he's basically, you
know, hunkering down in Texas working on
bringing this company public.
>> what you see right now in the economy
and what you see in financial markets.
In the economy, you see supply
constraints everywhere and a series of
supply shocks that started with goods,
the trade shock, then spilled over to
labor. We saw what's happened with
migration, immigration in this country.
That's spilled over into energy. And
then when you look at financial markets,
all you see is supply, not supply
constraints. You see tons of equity
issuance, you see lots of debt issuance
fueling lots of demand to go into a
supply-constrained economy, which is why
when we had this conversation early with
Dan Greenhouse, I was just sitting there
listening and just thinking, all I'm
hearing right now is inflation, tons of
demand supported by financial markets
going into a supply-constrained economy.
>> It's a cyclical problem that's overlaid
with a secular goal and secular
spending. At what point does the
cyclical problem curtail the hopes and
the ambitions of that secular goal?
Right now, the bar is incredibly high
simply because the promise for AI is so
great and people do view it as an
existential race. And that's why you're
seeing prices go up even though they
usually would curtail themselves based
on how much they've risen.
>> Some of that demand, much of it coming
out of those big names, not price
sensitive at all. Let's turn to retail.
Walmart and Target among the companies
reporting earnings this week giving a
new read on consumer resilience.
Sucharita Kodali of Forrester writing,
Walmart remains the clear retail share
gainer while Target is still in
turnaround mode. Sucharita joins us now
for more. Sucharita, welcome to the
program. No doubt we'll be talking about
the backdrop, the environment, the
consumer, but I want to start with
something Lisa's talked about
continuously with regards to Walmart,
and that's execution. What have they
done so well over the last several
years?
Well, they had some pretty massive store
renovations over the last several years
that have just done particularly well.
Anytime you do a store renovation, you
tend to see an uptick in
um, just sales because consumers like
the cleaner environment. Um, products
are easier to find. Usually, there is
some science that went into improving
some degree of the store layout. Um, and
that has been a significant part of it.
They also, um, also have supported their
employees pretty well in the last few
years with a any whether it's benefits
for AI training or other types of
upskilling. Um, so that tends to also
reduce some of the churn that you tend
to see in retail. And whenever you can
reduce churn, you tend to have better
employees who can, um,
you know, kind of essentially answer
shopper questions and put things where
they need to go. So, Citra, is Walmart
still representative of the overall
economy?
Well, it Walmart is in that it is doing
well right now. It is, um, at an
all-time high and, uh, that speaks to
how the economy is actually also doing,
um, as well, which is that even though
there are, um, there is this this sense
that the other shoe is going to drop at
any moment and we are going to enter a
recession, um, the ma- major macro
indicators, whether it is GDP growth or
whether it's unemployment rates, um, are
actually pretty strong. Retail spend is
at an all-time high. And when retail
spend is at an all-time high, you can
bet that it's usually Walmart and Amazon
sales that are also doing well. The
reason why I ask that, Citra, is because
increasingly the large are getting
larger and they're being more successful
because they have economies of scale,
because they can negotiate better rates,
they can withstand the supply shocks
that are repeated. And frankly, the
likes of both Amazon and Walmart have
other businesses. They have data that
they can sell to advertisers that more
effectively, uh, create a product. They
have entertainment, they have their
online shipping, they have a whole host
of of other kind of subsidiaries that
can bolster their earnings.
How much are they stealing share from
everybody else? And you're going to see
that reflected in the earnings that we
get from the other retailers, Target
among them.
Well, certainly Target has suffered
pretty tremendously in the last few
years, but that has been kind of the
opposite of Walmart's issue, which is
there's been execution which has been
challenged on the negative side. But at
the same time, there are other big
retailers that are also continuing to
grow like companies such as Costco as an
example. They're also there's a
significant amount of growth for the
very very small retailers and merchants
as well. We have to remember that some
of the merchants that are doing
particularly well are some of those
e-commerce players, whether they are
Shopify merchants or whether they're
TikTok sellers.
And their growth rates are doing quite
well right now
because a lot of this sense of being
able to discover products through social
media or other internet channels is
prevalent as well.
This narrative of the middle being
challenged, those mall merchants, the
big box merchants, that's not a new
narrative. It is something that many of
those mid-tier companies have been
incredibly challenged by because they
for the most part sell commodities that
are now available in typically they're
available online. And when you sell
commodities and you're not pricing them
in a more favorable way, you're not
going to gain share. And you also have
the added expense of essentially real
estate on top of everything. So Trina,
how difficult is Home Depot going to
have it this week, especially given the
backdrop of what's going on with rates?
Their issue is primarily an interest
rate issue and a housing issue. Um so
long as people are purchasing houses,
companies like Home Depot and Lowe's
tend to do well. The issue now is that
people are pulling back um because
interest rates are too high for most
consumers to actually um be willing to
purchase whatever is available in their
markets. And as a result of that, um
Home Depot is going to likely have some
softness. Um but that's they are a
cyclical business. Um this is something
that will likely rebound once um once
interest rates are are more favorable
for consumers. Sichuwe appreciate your
time. Going into a big week ahead.
Sichuwe got to tell you that uh
Forrester Home Depot down this year by
13%. Things were set up so well. And I
really do feel for anyone that's working
in and around residential real estate
right now because things were set up so
well. Yields were coming down.
We were about to get some big tax
refunds down into people's pockets, into
their bank accounts, which would set the
stage for a cyclical upswing. And then
all of a sudden, get the energy shock,
yields got the other way, financing
costs are going north, people are
spending that refund on something else,
on higher energy prices, and we were
about to lubricate the very stiff wheels
of the housing market, and then all of a
sudden things stiffened up pretty
quickly. Right now, mortgage rates,
30-year mortgage rates in the United
States, are at 6.36%.
That is the highest level going back to
September of 2025 before the Federal
Reserve cut interest rates three times.
It raises a question of what the signal
it is that is being sent, and how much
the housing market ends up bearing the
brunt of these conflicting economic
cycles that are overlaid on top of each
other.
>> And a double whammy for individuals
involved in the real estate market,
contractors I've spoken to last year
were concerned about tariffs. They said
things like wood coming from Canada were
going up. All of these home appliances
were going up because of tariffs. And
now this year, it's the energy story. So
really it's been challenging. Tough for
the builders, tough for Home Depot,
tough for Lowe's, see it across the
board. Home Depot and Lowe's down on the
year so far. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief standing by. Here's
Ronnie Quinn. Hey Ronnie. [music] Hey
John, thank you. New details emerging
about President Trump's meeting with
Chinese President Xi Jinping. China
agreeing to buy at least 17 billion
dollars worth of agricultural goods
annually through 2028. The Trump
administration also saying the country
will set up a board of trade and
investment with the United States.
Elon Musk says he wants to get the
SpaceX IPO underway pretty soon. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the company
could file as early as this week. Musk's
company is seeking to raise as much as
75 billion dollars on a valuation of
more than two trillion dollars making it
the largest IPO of all time.
Aaron Rai making history at the PGA
Championship becoming the first [music]
English-born player in more than a
century to capture the title. Rai made
six birdies over the last 10 holes
taking the lead for good on the 13th
hole and securing a three-shot victory.
The 32-year-old finished at 9 under par
271. And that is your Bloomberg brief,
John. Ronnie, thank you. Do you want a
cool story? More than 20 years ago I was
on a golf course.
And me and my friends, average golf
players, some of them much better than
me.
And there is a small kid playing golf on
a par three
>> [music]
>> using something like a three-wood or a
five-wood. And we get talking to the
dad. And the dad turns around to us and
he starts saying, "It's about course
management. He's too young to [music]
really think about hitting the green
from here. Want to think about how he's
going to play the hole and take it from
there." Kid must have been six, seven,
eight years old. The mechanics in the
swing though really, really good. And we
started to hear more about him in the
years after that.
Aaron Rai,
>> [music]
>> PGA champion yesterday afternoon. That
was that kid. How cool is that? That is
very cool. Did you get his autograph?
You should have been like if his dad
yeah if his dad is over there planning
course management I'm getting that kid's
autograph. he
>> two gloves at six years old?
>> remember that. I don't remember that.
Apparently that's because of the cold.
But they've got a great story, fantastic
story and I'm really really pleased to
see it. Just absolutely [music]
awesome. And next on the program, the
Iran war, Wang on wallets.
The Strait of Hormuz really all points
lead back to that. Gas prices are too
high because of that. So, as soon as we
get that straightened out, we will get
back to the kitchen table issues.
Up next we catch up with Francisco
Blanch of Bank of America live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Just a bit of a turnaround in crude.
Check it out. [music] Brent down to
about 109, was at 110 north of that
level. Similar story on WTI now down by
about 0.4%.
As you get that turn [music] in crude,
you get this turn in yields. Yields down
across the curve, tenths down by single
basis point. And this move in equities,
just a slight pop off the low. Almost
unchanged on the session, now down just
about two tenths of 1% off the back of
headlines from Iran. These are very
peculiar. Tasnim is reporting that the
US is proposing [music] a temporary OFAC
waiver until there is a final deal.
Basically meaning that Iranian crude
would get a waiver so they could sell in
the open market. Remember in the middle
of March,
>> [music]
>> the Treasury Department granted the
Iranians to sell crude that was already
at sea. I just find this so interesting
because at the same time, Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent is giving the
Europeans lip service [music] at the G7
in Paris telling them that they want
them to join in on sanctions for [music]
illicit funding and the selling of crude
etc. At the same time, they're going to
the Iranians and saying, if this is
correct by the way, we need [music] to
talk to the White House about this. This
is coming from Iranian press, but the
market certainly thinks this is
credible.
>> We've got the perfect guest around the
table to talk about this. Francisco
Blanch of Bank of America joined us now
for more. Francisco, good morning. Good
morning, John.
>> You've got a decent understanding on
where we are right now. How big is the
deficit for the crude market at the
moment? Uh we have a pretty large
deficit. And we're running around 14-15
million barrels a day short, 14-15%
short of what we need to see for prices
to stabilize, go down to 60-70 dollars a
barrel.
Um so it's a it's a big gap. And uh and
obviously measures like these will help
uh ease market uh pressures. And and of
course we are going to peak demand
season, which makes the deficit
potentially even greater.
So um yeah, so so I think I think
obviously uh look, it's it's all about
the Strait of Hormuz. Can it reopen soon
or not? And we've been talking about
this now, I guess. I feel like we're
into the
to the 11th week, 12th week.
>> First of the 11th year. The 11th year.
11th year, 12th week, I don't know. Um
but um
I think what's what's interesting is we
we I think the news over the weekend are
very good news. Also, what what we heard
from on on the agricultural side
because uh at first it felt like the
only agricultural discussion was uh rose
seeds, but now it's actually corn and
it's it's wheat. And all of that, I
think it's going to provide the market
relief. So um I I think it's a sign of
goodwill that China wants to cooperate.
And and I think it's important to
understand that China is the world's
largest exporter. The last thing they
want is is to see a global recession.
They need that export market.
>> Well, let's start with oil. And let's
assume a lot of things. Let's assume
nothing changes. And the existing
strategy of the US is to maintain the
blockade, to get Iran to suffer because
they believe we're very close to
breaching storage capacity. Given the
inventory draw that you're seeing
globally at the moment, if I had to ask
you, assuming everything else remains
the same, what happens first? Tank
bottoms in the west or tank tops in
Iran?
I I think I think tank tops in Iran are
are pretty close. Um
then again uh
we think we think that Iran can survive
roughly with one um one vessel a week, a
a quarter of a million barrels a day.
That they don't really need that much
money to to to pay their bills. On the
other hand, also we've seen Iran
basically shutting down exports for
about 4 years after the repeal of the
JCPOA initially during the Trump 1.0
administration. So, I I don't really
think that that um
the Iranians, because they have to shut
down fields, they're necessarily I mean
I mean they've been there before, kind
of thing, right? Um well, as as in the
West, the challenge is that obviously
we're going to have a much more
challenging summer season, right? And
and and people are not going to be
happy. So, not only you're paying higher
prices, but you may have availability
issues. And and and that can be a
problem. Are we at tank bottoms anywhere
in the world right now?
Uh so, some of the countries in Asia
are really experiencing a lot of strain.
Uh if you're a large energy importer
with a large current account deficit, uh
say like India or others, uh you are
running into a lot of problems, right? I
mean, Japan's in a collapse in
inventories. We've seen
a number of Asian countries as well in
the same position. This is primarily a
Pacific crisis.
It's not an Atlantic crisis yet. And
that's why we haven't felt as much um
pain in in in kind of Europe US. We're
going to Memorial Day weekend, and AAA
says that there's going to be tons of
people still on the road as these gas
prices aren't holding anyone back. We're
seeing the highest gas prices in 4
years. At some point, do you expect the
US to hit $5 a gallon? Could some point
Trump might own on record the highest
gasoline prices, overtaking Biden.
Well, so so it's hard to say. A lot of
it's going to depend on on some of these
measures, whether you can um
move barrels through Hormuz or not. But
but ultimately,
uh we are in a in a situation where of
course the US consumer is is in a better
position than most of the world. And
remember two things, right? So, first,
the US is a net exporter of energy. So,
uh
there is companies in the US making a
lot of money on the back of of the
higher prices.
Uh, so that's number one. And and and
number two, uh, as I said, countries
around the world uh,
have in general lower incomes than the
US. So, US consumers are very wealthy
consumer, right? The Indian consumer on
the other hand,
uh, is a whole different story, right?
So, so the shortages are happening,
they're just not happening here uh,
because of the income and because of the
availability. There was a sense when we
started this, if this conflict went on
for 6 weeks it'd be a problem. Then it
was 8 weeks. Now we're at 80 days and
people are saying we still can manage it
and it's because the supplies from the
US have been more than we have
previously expected. There was more
supply on the sea.
Are we reaching a point of a step change
in prices? We we could be uh, I would
say almost any week, right? So, um,
there's there's three potential paths
here. There is the uh, peace agreement,
uh, which I think will allow us to maybe
average $90 a barrel on Brent throughout
the rest of the year. Uh, there is the
continued um,
ceasefire with a double blockade, which
I think eventually will get us higher
and I think we'll probably be you know,
120, 130 over the course of the next few
weeks if the ceasefire doesn't end and
then if we go into late June, uh, 4th of
July, we could be well above that,
right? And then there is there is the,
you know, war escalation scenario where
where things can get a lot more shaky
with prices going up uh, pretty
substantially because the most important
thing to remember is is not so much,
you know, how much oil's coming out of
Hormuz right now, which obviously
impacts prices, but but how does the war
impact the forward balances? That's the
key, right? So, if we end up seeing uh,
facilities in the Middle East being hurt
again in a meaningful way because there
is escalation, that's going to alter not
just the gap that we have today that
people expect to kind of clear out as
soon as Hormuz clears out, but the
future gap. So, two out of those three
scenarios are significantly higher oil,
significantly above 120, 130 dollars a
barrel. Why do you still have the
average Brent price being 92 dollars and
50 cents for the full year?
Well, because I think uh President
Trump's been guiding us to
this war is almost over that this we are
we are uh going to see uh the reopening
of Hormuz and and and I think that's
generally what the market believes. I
think the narrative has been strongly
geared towards the idea that that uh
it's in everyone's interest to reopen
Hormuz and
and again, I mean today you know, just
mentioning a small pullback I mean it's
it's good news that China wants to
collaborate with the US and try to get
um try to get the world economy
um back in shape again. But we are
drawing from inventory. So, I think I
mean there's an assumption that that
this is so big that ultimately the the
powers that be will will coalesce
together and hopefully
>> or speculation? Is it news that China
wants to help or is it just speculation
they will? Well, I mean
if if they're buying uh US agricultural
products, you presumably that that's one
step forward, right? Well, have they
take a few more? Francisco, thank you,
sir. Francisco Blanch there of Bank of
America. I think everyone hopes they
take a few more steps forward and help
us get this thing moving again. Right.
Remember, it's the Chinese that told
their firms that they can ignore and
shrug off US sanctions. And the
president said he's going to consider
maybe lifting some of those sanctions
when it comes to those Chinese
refineries, those tea pots that buy
Iranian crude. When it comes to
agricultural purchases though, this has
been going on for months in terms of a
sidebar discussion between USTR and
China to buy more cuz that's what this
whole trade war was about.
>> then how strange was this meeting? It
was pretty strange. Yeah, it was a What
was strange about it? Strange are all
the CEOs that just some of them randomly
last minute on a refueling stop side to
join the president. And also, I found it
so odd. I mean China obviously wants to
dominate the narrative, it's on their
turf. But to come out with a readout why
the principals are still in a meeting, I
thought was very assertive and I I more
pushback from the President of the
United States.
>> Pretty incredible. Brent crude this
morning just about trimming that
turnaround. We're back to about 109 on
Brent, WTI at 105. Coming up, we'll
catch up with Liz Thomas of SoFi. We'll
talk [music] to the Ryanair CEO, Michael
O'Leary. Look out for that conversation.
Veronica Clark of Citi on why they still
think this Fed cuts rates this year. And
Colin [music] Martin of Charles Schwab.
The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
What continues to drive the market
higher here is the tech and the AI
narrative.
>> We are starting to enter the middle game
of AI. It's not [music] bubble-ish
valuation.
>> This is an AI revolution.
>> The underlying inertia right now looks
like it's pretty set to continue for the
foreseeable future. [music]
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your price action and scores look
like this. Just off session lows, we're
down by quarter of 1% on [music] the S&P
500, -0.2
on the Nasdaq. Just off session highs
across the yield curve, twos, 10s, and
30s still close to multi-decade highs at
the long end of the curve on 30s this
morning. 512 20. Supported earlier on by
moving crude, 110 on Brent. Just off
those highs now this morning. Back to
109.
>> Yeah, Mike Wilson over at Morgan Stanley
said that this is becoming a limiting
factor for the stock rally, how high oil
prices are and how high rates are as a
result. Going on to saying that bond
markets need a lasting resolution to the
Iran conflict before rates can come
back. Right now, this is not about
demand destruction. This is purely an
inflationary story. And that's how it's
being treated in the rates.
>> not seeing a solution that's all this
morning, can't we? Through the Strait of
Hormuz or in the Middle East. The
pressure building on G7 [music] allies
to maybe ramp up sanctions on Iran, or
is it the other way around? A report
from Iran just moments ago indicating it
might [music] be.
>> Sounds like the United States wants the
Europeans to ramp up sanctions while
they unwind them during what this
semi-official news agency in Iran is
saying, during the negotiating [music]
period, the US basically is offering,
according to Iranian media, that they
will waive the sanctions. So, basically
allowing Iranian crude to hit the global
market. This would be a huge [music]
deal, but also not unprecedented. What
did they do in the middle of March? This
administration allowed just that.
>> understand [music] this. Are we
negotiating an end to the war, or
negotiating the terms to negotiate an
end to the war? What phase are we in
right now? Right now, we are negotiating
[music]
terms to get to the negotiating table to
end the war. When you get to a
negotiating table, especially when it
comes to things like nuclear, you're
going to have nuclear [music] scientists
on each side that need to come to the
table and join them. This is going to
take months, and I think obviously bleed
into [music] next year.
>> Francisco Blanch put out three
scenarios. One of them is that there is
de-escalation, things get moving through
the Strait of Hormuz, and you get to his
call for $92.50
a barrel. The [music] second scenario is
the blockade continues, and then you end
up in the zone where oil prices just
creep higher, and it's boiling the frog
as the tank bottoms get closer and
closer. And the third scenario is
another hot war, which could potentially
destroy facilities and cause oil prices
to like well beyond what anyone is
projecting right now. You put those
three scenarios together, it is
uncomfortable heading into the driving
season as you've mentioned, and at a
time where already we're seeing some of
the stockpiles get depleted.
>> I can say on behalf of everyone, we all
hope we avoid scenario three.
Big time. We don't want to go back to
that. Crude this morning slightly
elevated, but off session highs. The
week ahead shaping up as follows. Lots
of earnings, including numbers from
Nvidia. And on the consumer, this This
an important read now. Away from the
economic data, what are the companies
seeing at the corporate level? Home
Depot, Target, Walmart through this
week.
>> Walmart in the last reading said that
they were starting to see weakness
around lower income consumers and that
they could really feel that. Do you see
that even more so now? And do you see
that reflected in the likes of Target?
Home Depot and Lowe's slightly different
story given the pressure, the cyclical
pressure that the housing market has
been under. We keep going back to
though, how much is the Walmart of the
world going to be truly a read on the
consumer versus adaptation [music] of
some of the new technology and
consolidation of market power. It's a
really important week as well because
we're going into Memorial Day weekend
[music] and we're at $4.51
a gallon and this is going to be one of
the highest, most expensive Memorial Day
weekends [music]
American consumers are facing going back
in years. So we're going to get a lot of
different reads this entire [music] week
on where the American consumer is.
>> Look out for those earnings reports from
the big retailers through the week
ahead. Coming up this hour, we'll have a
conversation with Liz Thomas of SoFi
with stocks under pressure over the past
few sessions. We'll catch up with
Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary as higher
fuel costs start taking a bigger toll
and Veronica Clark of Citi on why the
Fed could still cut interest rates this
year, not once, not twice, but maybe
three times still the call over at Citi.
There is this belief that the economy is
going to turn in a massive way and it's
going to be led by the labor market and
that's been the call over at Citi and
that's been the call at a number of
other places.
Overtaken by events? At what point does
that end up becoming a theme?
>> I don't even think the President of the
United States, who really wants to see
interest rates cut more than anyone I
think in the world, even agrees with
that. In this Fortune magazine
interview, he's saying you can't really
look at the figures until the war is
over. Basically resigning to the fact
that he may have to wait for the Fed to
cut. The 10-year just around 4.1%
in this morning's session. We begin this
hour with stocks inching lower and
global bond yields still near
multi-decade highs as inflationary fears
continue to persist. Liz Thomas of SoFi
writes in the fundamentals are still
supportive of equities. The AI narrative
is in the driver's seat, but moves in
yields have finally starting to bite.
Liz joins us now for more. Liz, welcome
to the program. You have described this
as a risk-friendly environment. Does
this bond market change things?
I think it starts to change things. I
mean, we've got the 10-year well above
450 now, and that's been the level that
equities have struggled with for much of
this cycle. And we're seeing equities
struggle with that pretty in tandem with
it moving above that level for the last
couple days. So, I think what's happened
in the last week is we obviously got
some hot inflation prints last week in
the form of CPI and PPI, and the equity
market started to realize, okay, you
know what? This war is going to last
longer than we'd hoped. It's starting to
show up in inflation numbers. It's
likely to continue showing up in
inflation numbers. The bond market
responded accordingly, as did rate cut
or rate hike expectations for the Fed.
And now we're having a little bit of a
re-rating in the equity space. That
said, we still have the AI narrative. We
have earnings momentum and earnings
strength driving most of the bus, and
that's what is keeping multiples in an
elevated place at the index level.
That's what's keeping risk appetite
healthy, excuse me. And I think these
two narratives, where we've got
uncertainty from the war, but optimism
from AI, are going to continue to argue
with one another. And right now, AI
continues to win. Is there a level at
which rates crimp the spending desires
of some of the big tech names?
At this point, I I don't think that
that's going to be a major point of
contention. I don't think that they have
enough debt yet. They could get there,
but I don't think they have enough debt
yet for that to be something that slows
down CapEx. I think what you'd have to
see is an economic response in the
consumer in particular. And so far,
we've seen consumer behavior change. So,
consumers are making difficult choices
based on where prices are, but there
hasn't been demand destruction. And
you're continuing to see consumers spend
on services. So, travel has not suffered
despite there being such a rise in
airfare. Restaurant traffic has not
really suffered despite rising food
prices. You're seeing things like
durable goods slow down. So, it'll be
interesting to see what Home Depot and
Lowe's report this week. But, we haven't
seen the consumer stop spending. And
I've been saying for much of this cycle,
too, that the consumer keeps spending
because the consumer sees a labor market
that is still showing people as
employed. And even in the last month, we
saw labor data start to pick up a little
bit. So,
I think begrudgingly, the consumer has
held on to their spending trends.
If the consumer slows down and it starts
to take a bite out of earnings more
broadly, then you see a capital markets
hit and then perhaps down the road, I
don't think anytime soon, but down the
road then maybe a slowdown in CapEx
spending. But, I want to caveat that
with the fact that at some point CapEx
spending, the growth in CapEx has to
slow down. It can't continue at this
clip. And that doesn't mean that
something's broken or something's wrong.
>> If you do think that people are still
spending and they will continue to even
with the oil prices at this rate and
with bond yields where they are, then do
you think that it's a good opportunity
to go into the more cyclical aspects of
the market, the equal weight, given that
that's been underperforming pretty
dramatically, or do you want to stay
with big tech as the one theme that will
be the stalwart through all of this?
It's a good question. And the real
question for investors right now is, if
it is in fact a bubble and if we are in
fact getting towards, let's say, the
middle part of that bubble, nobody knows
when it will pop if it does pop. But, in
the meantime, you still want to be
exposed to that theme that's driving
optimism in the market. So, the question
is
as you have exposures, I'm going to
assume most investors do, you manage
your positions at this point. This is
about risk management, but maintaining
exposure to AI, to tech communications,
and some of those consumer discretionary
names that are very AI adjacent.
But, making sure that as prices rise,
you're starting to trim that and manage
your exposure to particular names or
particular groups. Right now, the
semiconductors, for example. And then,
taking that capital and redeploying it
into areas that I think are set to
benefit from AI, but just haven't yet to
the same degree. And healthcare would be
a place where I would put some of that
capital. Healthcare continues to come
up. What other sectors are potentially
going to be the first ones to win this
race in terms of the benefits from AI?
Well, I think some of the larger
sectors, like industrials, can over
time. I think healthcare actually ends
up being the largest beneficiary. Now,
it'll take a while, but I think some of
those larger sectors, as I mentioned,
industrials, hopefully financials as
well. But right now, the cyclicality
ratios outside of tech aren't really
showing that strength yet. We've got
this momentum factor that's really
driving everything, but it's not
reaching into other sectors. So, the the
broadness that we think we saw earlier
before the war has not returned yet. And
I'd like to see some of those
cyclicality ratios pick back up. So,
things like consumer discretionary
versus staples, banks versus utilities.
I'd like to see some life out of those,
transportation come back before I would
really deploy into the cyclical areas of
this market.
>> Liz, good to see you. As always, Liz
Thomas there of SoFi. That last note is
really important. That's the debate
right now. Do you catch up, or do you
catch down? Jonathan Krinsky of BTIG,
semis are likely to catch down to the
rest of the market as opposed to the
other way around that. He's a technical
strategist. I have to say, my words, are
his. He sounds super bearish right now.
Just going through his coverage of
things over the last week.
>> Yeah, he's been incredibly bearish in
terms of the equal and opposite reaction
of what we've seen in terms of a
hyperbolic move. He cited M&M, "Oh,
there goes gravity." when he was talking
about what he expects. But at a certain
point you start looking at this and
saying, "So someone is wrong, right?
Either we are underestimating what AI is
going to do or we're overestimating it
and this is overpriced." But if we're
underestimating it, the scope of change
elsewhere maybe is that much more that
we have to think about.
>> The S&P this morning down by a little
more than a tenth of 1%. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief, is Vonnie Quinn. Hey
Vonnie. Hey Don, thank you. Oil prices
reversing earlier gains. Iran's
semi-official news organization Tasnim
reporting the US is proposing a
temporary waiver on Iran oil sanctions
until a final agreement is made. [music]
Tasnim citing a source close to the
negotiating team.
A major power deal may be on the
horizon. NextEra is discussing a mostly
stock deal for Dominion Energy.
>> [music]
>> Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
deal would value the company at about
$66 billion.
NextEra shareholders would own about 75%
of the combined company.
And Ford shares rising in the premarket,
the carmaker announcing a five-year
framework agreement with EDF for battery
storage systems. The deal could lead to
up to 20 gigawatt hours of power to
support grid resilience across North
America.
>> [music]
>> And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Vonnie, thank you. That name has become
one to watch. Up in the premarket by 6%.
Up next the morning call is plus the
Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary, as higher
fuel costs begin to bite in the
industry. An absolute legend of that
industry joins us next in the studio.
Looking forward to that. From New York
City this morning, good morning.
I'm most interested in what's going to
happen on a go-forward basis. I think we
know Jensen. We know that he's very
skilled right now. He's likely to get
that 6 trillion valuation cuz the market
wants it probably almost more than he
does. We are seeing a weakening in the
overall AI story and they are a huge
chapter of that story.
>> Amrita Kundu of Cleo Capital on the
program a little bit earlier on can I
get to earnings from Nvidia as its
number dropped on Wednesday after the
close ahead of the opening bell later on
this morning about an hour and 15
minutes away. Equity futures slightly
lower down by 0.2% on [music] the S&P on
the Nasdaq 100 down by 10th coming off
the back of the biggest one-month drop,
biggest one-day drop we've seen in
[music] the last month going all the way
back to March 30th. Some negative
follow-through just trimming the losses
in the last hour. In the bond market
yields still elevated very close to
multi-decade highs. The 30-year around
512 supported by this move in crude.
Brent, the front end of the futures
contracts 110 earlier on this morning
109.65.
>> Yeah, the idea that it was able to shake
off that one report gives you a sense of
the path of travel. This is boiling the
frog. We keep repeating that over and
over again as the blockade remains
closed for 80 days. Keeping with that
blockade and it doesn't seem like things
are going to change anytime soon.
[music]
>> No, but it's very interesting that the
Iranian media is reporting that part of
the negotiating process was that the
United States would give some OFAC
waivers basically allow Iranian crude to
be shipped. This would just get to the
table basically as maybe an olive branch
of goodwill to start the process to wind
down this war. Very interesting though
cuz the Treasury Secretary is telling
the Europeans they need to up the
sanctions. Yeah, so they're kind of
talking about both sides of their mouth.
We obviously need the White House to
clarify.
>> That's how the stage is set in the
commodity market. Let's get you some
morning calls. First up, KeyBank raising
its price target on Nvidia ahead of
earnings expecting higher shipments of
the company's most advanced chips. You
sent a call from Bernstein initiating
coverage of arm with an out perform
rating saying the company will benefit
>> [music]
>> from a renaissance for CPUs. And
finally, City raising its price target
on Intel to 130 seeing the CPU market
grow 35% annually in an updated model.
That stock is just inching higher by
10th of 1%. [music] As well, let's talk
about Ryanair shares rising after
posting a record full year profit. The
budget carrier warning of rising costs
this year from guess what? Higher fuel
prices. Joining us now legend of the
industry, the Ryanair boss, Michael
O'Leary. Michael, good morning. Good to
see you. Come on, we've been friends for
a while. You're a legend.
How would you describe yourself? Old
fart?
>> Old fart, I think, yeah. I think it's
fair to say.
>> Aging dinosaur. You've seen it all, sir.
Have you seen something like this
before? The situation Five years ago the
Russians invaded Ukraine. 20 years ago
the second Gulf War, the first Gulf War,
9/11. Yeah, this happens regularly
within our industry. That's why in
Ryanair we typically hedge 80% of our
fuel. We're 80% hedged out to March
2027, 67 bucks a barrel. We're in great
shape apart from the fact our share
price has tanked in the last 2 weeks cuz
they were oh, they're an airline.
Go to hell. And we're just reported
record full year results, 208 million
passengers, 2.26 billion euros profit
after tax, spinning off cash to
shareholders, share buybacks. And with a
bit of luck, if this continues, although
you know, we can all have a debate on
how long we think that this will
continue in the Middle East and with the
Straits of Hormuz, uh some of the flaky
competitors in Europe will get taken out
in carrier baskets by about September,
October because they're not hedged on
oil and they're borrowed up to their
eyeballs in net debt. Are you ready to
buy?
Uh we are certainly very good by cheap
aircraft. If anyone's got any cheap
aircraft, uh I'm really excited. We are
about to get the first 10 of our Max 10
aircraft, first 15 of our Max 10
aircraft from Boeing in the spring of
2027. 20% more seats per plane, burns
20% less oil. And the technological
efficiency of the new engines is
remarkable. Um and we will take
We're ordered We've ordered 300 of those
from Boeing. We priced them during
COVID, so we've basically stolen them.
Uh and they will transform even our
operating economics in Europe for the
next decade.
>> So, are you interested though in buying
an carrier in its entirety aside from
just their aircraft?
>> There is nothing in Europe you would
want to buy. It's all crap. Uh
you know, it will go bust
you know, in the not too distant future.
Europe is inexorably, you know, moving
the same direction the US did 20 years
ago. Three large connecting carriers,
BA, Lufthansa, Air France, KLM. They are
making out like bandits at the moment
because all the long-haul connecting
traffic has switched off the Gulf
carriers and is going on those legacy
guys. Short-haul, Ryanair will continue
to dominate the short-haul space in
Europe because we have much lower fares
and much lower cost. We're the only
really low-fare, low-cost carrier in
Europe. There's a few other low-fare,
not so low-cost carriers in Europe, but
they're all good to They're all going to
go the same way as Spirit and Frontier
in the States.
>> That's what I wanted to ask. It seems
like the model in the US is really
struggling. We had Spirit go bankrupt.
There's talk of mass consolidation among
some of the other low-cost carriers and
this idea that every consumer is
expecting higher quality and that that
is what's generating a lot of the
revenues.
How does Ryanair succeed in that
environment, in that demand backdrop? I
mean, the problem with the last 20 years
in the States is there's really been no
low-cost carriers anymore. I mean, we
copied out this formula originally from
Southwest back in the late 1980s when
Herb Kelleher was in his pomp. You know,
Southwest was charging $10 $10 fares.
Now, Southwest average fare last year
was 140 bucks. It's not a low-fare
carrier anymore. If you had a real
low-fare carrier here in the States as
Ryanair is in the US, our average fare
last year was 40 bucks. Uh there would
still be very strong demand because the
the The airlines here, I mean, they've
had control of the amount of supply in
the market for the last 20 years and
they've been pricing up. The cost of air
travel in the States is incredibly high,
particularly given that you don't pay
for ATC. Could you expand into the US?
>> No, absolutely not. We're too busy
expanding in Europe and in those
countries around Europe. There is so
much growth available to us in Europe.
You look at me last year, we grew 4%.
We're the biggest airline in Europe. We
grew 4% to 208 million passengers. This
year, I'll grow another 4% 216 million
passengers. And in the next decade with
these max 10 aircraft, I'm going to go
to 300 million passengers, all in
Europe. I mean, Europe is the best
playground for low-cost airline that you
could possibly imagine. A couple of big,
useless legacy airlines charging more,
you know, charging annual salaries for
their long-haul travel, but nobody able
to do the low-cost stuff. We do the
low-cost stuff well. We're cheap Irish
guys, you know, uh
and so we do it well with the on with a
with an order for 300 really fantastic
aircraft coming from Boeing.
>> mean back in the '90s.
>> Which used to be so mean. It was brutal.
Do you remember that?
>> Yeah. Well, we were never brutal. We
were
cheap and less We were cheap and mean.
Now, we're just cheap and cheerful.
>> [laughter]
>> New aircraft, on-time flights, huge I
mean, last year, our customer we were at
record customer service metrics.
Customer service satisfaction went up
from 86 to 89%. I never thought I'd see
the day when I got more than 50%
customer satisfaction, but hey, who
knew? Can I ask you, where are Europeans
traveling to this summer for vacation?
Do they want to come to America anymore?
No, I know, I mean, I was sorry, that's
not true. Yes, they do, uh but the
problem is that the the cost of
long-haul travel has got very expensive.
So, you you know, there isn't much
competition across the Atlantic between
the European legacies and the US majors.
The ghost carriers were the real
disruptors for the last 20 years and
they have, you know, their capacity's
been halved in recent months. So, a huge
amount of Europeans will holiday at home
in Europe this year in Portugal, in
Spain, in Italy, in Greece. A lot of
Americans are still coming to Europe, uh
you know, for the the quality, for the
sunshine, the culture, and the alcohol.
And long may they continue to travel.
But, I think there's a real sea change
this year of people who would
historically have gone to the Middle
East or using the Middle East carriers
to connect to long haul, probably going
to stay at home in Europe this summer.
>> When will Europe run out of fuel?
Uh it won't.
>> It won't. There was a real concern, I
think, back in April. You know, there
was real worries over supply, uh jet
supply. The jet supply has now We met
with all of our fuel suppliers in Paris
last week. There's no issues over jet
fuel supply right now through to the end
of September. There's one issue in the
UK, Q8, which is the subsidiary of the
state of Q8, have about 30% market share
at some of the airports in the UK. Even
they now are re- are resourcing that
supply. Most of Europe's jet A1 supply
comes from West Africa, the Americas,
Norway. And the lifting of Russian
sanctions has also eased the supply of
jets wanting to Eastern European
countries.
>> So, you don't seem concerned with what's
going on right now with the conflict in
Iran. Uh I'm very concerned about the
price of oil. And but I don't believe
the conflict in Iran will have any
disruption on European jet supplies. I
do The question for us is how long will
the Strait of Hormuz remain closed? I
mean, you know, we we we gave guidance
this morning. If it remains closed till
March 2027,
our unit, because of our unhedged 20%,
our unit cost might rise, you know, mid
single digits this year. Nobody believes
it's going to stay that to? Can you just
explain your current hedging strategy?
What do you hedge that to?
>> We have bought 80% of our jet fuel
requirements, John, out to March 2027 at
$67 a barrel. So, we're sitting, you
know, we're in great shape.
>> Great position. But, nobody really
believes that the Strait of Hormuz is
going to stay closed until March of next
year. It's just we don't know when
they're going to reopen. Iran is going
to starve if they don't get it ready,
you know, the Strait of Hormuz reopened
in the next couple of months.
The midterm election season kicks off on
Memorial Day at the end of May. You
know, Trump is going to lose the House
and the Senate if he doesn't get this
result and reopened.
But the timing is none of us know when
the timing will be. But you know, I hope
it's sooner rather than later. But if it
stays if it becomes later, say it's you
know for
if something happens that none of us
expect the streets stay closed till
September, October, November. Then we
are looking at our unit cost will be up
about 5% but you'll be looking at kind
of airlines failing all over Europe Like
who's failing?
Well, I can't really name them, but you
know some of our low fare but not so low
cost competitors.
>> EasyJet, Wizz? I don't think EasyJet
will fail. I mean I I don't think
they'll make any money this year. Wizz
could well be a candidate for failure.
airBaltic which was recently bailed out
by the the Latvian government gave it a
30 million loan to get them from June
through to August. But they have to
repay the loan in August. I mean good
luck with the Latvians trying to get
that repaid at the end of August. So I
think there will be casualties, but
again a lot depends on how I mean you
know more about this than I how long the
streets from Wizz remains open remains
closed. When can Trump declare a victory
and you know kick off the midterms
suspect it's probably going to be the
end of May, maybe early June, but what
the hell I mean if I was any if I if if
my predictions were any good, I wouldn't
be working in the airline business.
Doing something else.
>> in a proper functioning business like
Bloomberg. I'll get it right this time.
>> star salaries. I'll get it right this
time. Michael O'Leary old fart at the
airline industry. [laughter]
Boss of Ryanair, Michael. Good to see
you, buddy. Thank you.
>> Good to see you, John. Thank you.
>> thank you. Up next, Veronica Clark of
Citi.
Michael O'Leary should just guest host
the program. Maybe he just host the
program.
>> about to say.
>> [laughter]
>> I'll watch that. I love his messaging.
This guy's hilarious.
I'm I'm humble enough to say he could do
better. I'd [laughter] happily watch
that program. Equity futures on the S&P
this morning firmer by a 10th of 1%.
Off the lows, we're still negative by
0.15% on the Nasdaq this morning. We're
down by a 10th of 1% on the Russell,
negative by 0.1. Things have turned
around in the last 90 minutes or so with
this move in the bond market. Off the
highs, yields at [music] the moment on
30s 51282, still up a single basis
point. 10s still around 460. Bit of an
unwinding crude as we came into work
this morning here in New York around
what, 4:00 a.m.? 5:00 a.m. is sad, isn't
it? Brent crude was north of 110,
109.42, 43-ish right now, up by a 10th
of 1%. [music] Some news coming out of
Iran that maybe the US is prepared to do
something on sanction waivers to get
talks going again, which is
>> [music]
>> hard to get your head around.
>> waiver on Iranian oil sanctions until
there is a final agreement, which how
long could this final agreement [music]
take? So, basically a way to push the
Iranians to the table, potentially. This
is coming out of Iranian state media. I
find it just fascinating cuz it's mere
hours after the Treasury Secretary in
Paris at the G7 Finance Ministers
meeting is giving the Europeans [music]
a little bit of a a smackdown about how
they need to be tougher on Iran when it
comes to sanctions. [music]
When already this administration in
March gave away a waiver for Iranian oil
um at sea. So, talking out of both sides
of mouth. You said it earlier on, we're
negotiating terms to end the war or
negotiating terms for negotiations to
end the war. And it feels like we're in
a much, much earlier phase of
negotiations based on some of the
evidence we're seeing so far. Where is
the progress? And ultimately, [music]
people aren't seeing it, which is why
the blockade has gone for 80 days and
why people don't see an end to it. That
was the sea change [music] over the
weekend is that China's not going to
stop it and people aren't seeing the
exact end other than either an
escalation or some sort of sea change
that we [music] haven't seen yet.
>> What a difficult moment for the incoming
Fed chair, Kevin Warsh. Yields at
multi-decade highs,
energy at multi-year highs, pressure
building to cut interest rates from the
president at least, and maybe that has
cooled off somewhat and a committee
[music] that's very very fractured.
That's a difficult meeting a month away.
You know, I think it would be a good
time to get laryngitis. I think just
say, you know, honestly
>> do the presser.
>> I'm really tough. I'm sorry. Hantavirus.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, that's that's something else.
Don't wish that on anyone.
>> show up though. That's all I'm saying.
Okay.
That news conference a month away with
Kevin Warsh. Policy makers facing a
growing divide over the Fed's approach
to interest rates. Wednesday's FOMC
minutes expected to show divergence over
the central bank's easing bias as the
Fed prepares to enter a new era.
Bloomberg's Enda Curran joins us now for
more. Enda, welcome to the program.
Kevin Warsh at a really difficult
moment. Just how divided is this
committee?
Well, I think the minutes on Wednesday
will reinforce how divided committee is
and how difficult it will be for Mr.
Warsh. John, like you say, we know what
the at the last policy meeting there was
a there were three dissents over the
language in the statement itself. That
was
and when you include Governor Myron's
dissent against decision, it was the
most dissents since 1992. The point is
that the Fed policy makers are trying to
move away from this idea at all that the
next move in rates might be a cut. They
want the message getting out there now
that number one at the very least
they're on hold uh for as long as, you
know, for the near term to medium term
at least and then beyond that we might
get a hint from the minutes in terms of
just how hawkish some people are. I
mean, nobody yet is saying a rate cut is
a rate hike is their base case, but
certainly it's starting to come into
market pricing. We're starting to hear
policy makers warn about it. Governor
Barr last week saying his biggest
concern at the moment is that inflation
won't behave for example. So, when we
get these minutes on Wednesday, it will
just reinforce a the Fed is not cutting
near term. They're on hold. It will then
though spark a conversation about what
might just tip them over the edge
towards a hiking territory that other
central banks are in. Enda, do you sense
that the pressure is coming down just a
bit? And I'm talking about the pressure
coming from the White House and the
president. Amari talked about an
interview conducted released overnight
just showing the president maybe
understanding why they wouldn't cut
interest rates through this summer. I've
heard similar noise coming from the
likes of Secretary Besson from the NEC
director as well that maybe they just
dialed down the pressure just a touch.
It's a really interesting observation
John and I think it's one that
everybody's going to be watching
closely. I mean we have had mixed
signals on that though. If you remember
maybe a month or two ago Treasury
Secretary Besson was making the point he
would understand why the Fed would be on
hold but then you have people like the
NEC director Kevin Hassett saying
there's plenty of scope for the Fed to
be cutting rates and at one point of
course President Trump as well said he
would be disappointed if they don't cut
rates. But I do think it would be very
interesting to see if once Mr. Warsh is
sworn into office at some point soon if
the language does change critically from
the top down. I think if President Trump
consistently starts saying look we're in
a situation right with yields where they
are and with
oil prices where they are etc. that the
Fed needs some time out. Well obviously
that would be very important observation
to keep an eye on but um I don't think
we're there yet John. It seems to be
mixed signals from the administration at
the moment. And a thank you buddy. It's
good to hear from you as always. Under
current down in Washington D.C. Can this
Fed cut rates?
Not once, not twice, but maybe three
times this year. Veronica Clark of Citi
thinks so. Gradual weakening in demand
will lead to a rising unemployment rate
in the summer months. Veronica joins us
now for more. Veronica good morning.
>> Good morning. Each passing day this
sounds more and more contrarian. Just
lay out your argument for us. No it
definitely you know to get 75 basis
points to get any cuts at all it does
have to start with the labor market data
right? Um and right now yeah nothing
really looks like it's breaking in the
labor market. We even had a stronger
jobs report last month. Um I would take
the the payroll numbers with a bit of
caution. They are very volatile now um
and I'm not really encouraged by what
you see in the unemployment rate. Um you
we've had this big slowing in labor
supply. Labor force participation rate
has come down and the unemployment rate
is still stuck at 4.3, 4.4%. That means
that demand got worse. Um and that's
ahead of the summer months when you
usually hire a lot of people when you
get students entering the labor force,
new graduates. Um and it's been the
summer when we've seen the unemployment
rate rise the last couple years. There's
a reason the Fed has cut in September
for the last 2 years. It's when we see
the summer data. You've got unemployment
going up then. Yeah. Where have you got
inflation? It needs to look better,
right? Um so the the inflation focus
right now, it's still uncomfortable,
right? Um so even the the May data, I
think will look uncomfortably strong. Um
but I think if we see monthly inflation
readings for June, July, August, data
that we'll have before that September
meeting, um if those monthly reports
look better, annual inflation will still
be high, um but you do need inflation at
least on a monthly basis slowing for the
Fed to be comfortable cutting.
>> What would you have to see to change
your view?
Stickier inflation for longer, not
seeing the seasonality in the labor
market data. Really within the next
couple weeks that that seasonality
starts to first play out in initial
jobless claims. Um once you get around
the start of the summer, Memorial Day
holiday, around mid-May, certainly by
June, you do see claims starting to
trend higher. So that's the first thing
I'm I'm watching for. Um if that doesn't
happen within the next month or two,
then okay, maybe the labor market has
durably gotten better. Yeah. Isn't there
a bit of a stress on this entire
equation because it might not be as
hinged to the labor market as it has
been in the past that inflation could be
stickier even without the participation
of the labor economy just based on all
the spending coming from hyperscalers?
>> Yeah, I mean there I'm certainly worried
about that AI-related inflation. That
actually does get, you know, a big part,
a big weight in core PCE, some of those
computer software-related components. Um
so yeah, we are getting inflation there,
but, you know, the demand-driven tight
labor market kind of inflation that the
Fed would be most reactive to, um that's
what we really don't see, and I do
wonder if having the dual mandate kind
of forces them into caring about that
kind of inflation. Um even last week we
got an update for the Atlanta Fed wage
tracker. That's like the monthly proxy
for an ECI, Fed's preferred wage
measure. It's very low again. Um, it
fell a lot. Um, so you definitely don't
see that labor market tightness kind of
inflation. Do you think that this Fed is
going to have to tacitly accept 3%
inflation in order to
continue on the path that you see? Yeah,
I mean, on a on an annual basis core PC
is going to look more like three for the
for most of this year, right? Um, I
think the most officials will be really
cautious on that for now. Um, but it was
interesting to hear, you know, new
incoming Chair Walsh talk about other
measures of inflation, right? The
trimmed mean PCE. Um, even CPI is
running softer than core PC right now.
Um, you maybe they can, you know, adjust
a little bit in what they're they're
caring about. The president thinks
potentially you need to wait until
there's the proper figures, look at them
after the war is over. Almost signaling
that he will give Kevin Walsh a little
more of breathing space. So, when would
these three cuts actually happen? Yeah,
well, it would happen later in the year
after if we see if we see the the weaker
labor market data. But yeah, for right
now, um, I don't expect that he can be
particularly dovish going into that June
meeting. Um, especially if markets
perceive that we're not taking inflation
seriously, then it's, you know, we get
yield higher. John has brought up a lot
that this is the man who said in his
Senate hearing, "Inflation is a choice."
So, how hawkish do you think verbally
he's going to be?
>> Yeah, I don't know. It's really tricky,
you know, he's definitely been more
hawkish when it comes to things like the
balance sheet and trying to offset that
with sounding more dovish on on policy
rates. Um, but it is really hard to to
know what his views are going to be
coming. He is more traditionally
hawkish, you know, is there going to be,
you know, 180? I don't I don't think so.
Um, but yeah, we'll have to see.
>> Initially, inflation is a choice sounded
hawkish and then in the actual hearing
it started to sound increasingly dovish
cuz you get to choose your index. Yeah,
exactly. Yeah. [laughter]
Yeah, we don't really know where this is
going to go. Yeah, we have not heard
that.
>> The optics aren't great, are they?
They've missed their target for 5 years
and they're talking about changing their
preferred index.
>> think they will.
>> Time is not good.
>> Yeah, I don't think other Fed officials
are going to be comfortable with that,
but I mean, it is an interesting signal
that, you know, what you were supposed
to care about is the strongest of the
core inflation measures right now.
>> reading some research from BNP Paribas
and they've got a different view on
things for the path ahead. Everyone's
entitled to their own forecast, of
course. They think on the hike and the
way you discuss the potential for one is
to start reflecting on the insurance
cuts you took a year ago and the year
before and emphasize that they were just
insurance cuts and talk about taking
them back. Yeah.
>> What would you think of that kind of
move? Um I mean, the market's already
done that a little bit, right? Um and I
think most Fed officials um will still
see that rates are on the restrictive
side of the neutral range. Um so, if you
do start to see any wobbles in the labor
market, then suddenly you don't need
rates even more restrictive, of course,
right? Um and I would kind of agree with
that restrictive assessment just because
of what we see in all the, you know,
wage growth slowing and home prices that
are pretty weak. Um yeah, we'll see. How
messy is the SEP going to be next month?
>> Oh, I don't know. Yeah, pretty messy.
Um maybe at some point we even get some
changes to it, right? Um you know, Warsh
was talking about scaling back some
communications potentially. Um maybe
that's an easy out, right? You just say
very little in June.
>> [laughter]
>> Veronica Clark Cassidy, Veronica, thank
you. One cut, two cuts, three cuts for
the year ahead and the base case is they
get those three cuts because
unemployment goes higher. Have you from
Citi this morning. This is the idea that
the economy is going to ultimately
matter. I'm sorry to sound like, you
know, a little skeptical here, but it's
sort of we've talked about the two-speed
economy. You have essentially
rank-and-file individuals who are not
seeing their pay increases that are
necessarily matching offsetting
inflation at the same time that you have
price-insensitive buyers in the side of
AI and potentially, if you cut rates,
that only fuels what some people are
seeing as elevated valuations or
bubble-like conditions over in the one
side even as it helps some of the people
on the other side.
>> what the market is pricing, the risk of
a rate hike. But I also think we should
highlight what we're hearing from the
so-called hawks on the Federal Reserve.
And let's take Neel Kashkari for
instance. Listening to his dissent, it
sounded like his dissent was more of a
performative communication exercise than
it was really a display or willingness
to hike interest rates anytime soon.
What he was talking about was removing
the easing bias so that financial
conditions would tighten so they
wouldn't have to do more later. I still
sense a reluctance from many of these
officials, even those that want to
remove the easing bias at the Federal
Reserve, a real reluctance to really
hike interest rates.
>> That's why a lot of different bond
investors say it's not going to happen.
So stop even pricing that in cuz that's
an unlikely outcome. That said, if they
don't remove that easing bias, and this
is what Ed Yardeni was talking about,
>> got a problem.
>> Then you've got a problem. And then you
potentially leave long-end rates
unmoored. So how much does this market
have to believe then that they are
willing to do that in order to get
long-end rates under control? It's this
whole kind of Kabuki theater experience.
>> The communication theater, right?
Communication exercise. That's where
we're at. Futures right now, the S&P 500
just turning positive going into the
opening bell. Let's give you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Bonnie Quinn has more. Hey
Bonnie. Hey Don. Thank you. A little
more context around that Ed Yardeni
call. Ed Yardeni [music] out with a
warning for the Fed. Catch up with bond
markets or risk losing control of
borrowing costs. Yardeni says the Fed
should remove its easing bias at its
June meeting given that it is no longer
[music] appropriate in the current
market environment.
President Trump warning that the clock
is ticking for Iran. [music] The two
sides are still far apart in any deal to
end their war and reopen the Strait of
Hormuz.
>> [music]
>> In a Truth Social post, Trump said Iran
better get moving or quote, "There won't
be anything left of them."
The nation's largest commuter railroad
coming to a halt. Long Island Railroad
workers striking for the first time in
30 years. The MTA is advising people to
work from home if possible with free
shuttle buses and helicopter rides
available as alternatives. And that is
your Bloomberg Brief, John. It's the
kind of New York conversation, Bonnie.
Thank you. The kind of New York
conversation that Mohn Dohnavany would
seize on, right? That we have a problem
with the train and we start talking
about helicopters as an alternative.
Fair point, especially given the fact
that yes, Blade is saying $95. Some
people have done market research and
found that it's actually in practice
about $2,000. That said, it does
highlight the necessity for us to have
public [music] transportation that is
financed fully and that frankly is also
affordable because that also is a
problem with respect to the budget.
[music]
>> Helicopters aren't really an
alternative. You know, when I first
heard 95, I said that's reasonable for a
helicopter. I don't think 95 is
reasonable for many other people.
>> I also want to do it just for like the
joyride because we [music] can, you
know, helicopters are cool.
>> bill it to work expense it. Film it or
something like that. Just a suggestion.
Clear it with management first. Up next,
Colin Martin at Charles Schwab with
global bond yields near their highest in
decades. [music]
That conversation up next.
Nobody really believes that the streets
of Hormuz are going to stay closed until
March of next year. It's just we don't
know when they're going to reopen. Iran
is going to starve if they don't get it
ready, you know, the streets of Hormuz
reopened [music] in the next couple of
months. Trump is going to lose the House
and the Senate if he doesn't get this
result and reopened. With that, CV
anchor.
>> [music]
>> Michael O'Leary there.
Ryanair boss could be an anchor. He's
fantastic. Fantastic. A little bit
earlier on the airline industry and the
situation in the Middle East. Let's talk
about that situation because equities
are turning around just a bit. We're
positive by 0.2% on the S&P, up by 0.5
on the Nasdaq. The why? Some of that is
in the bond market. Earlier on today, we
were at 112 and positive 2.5% [music]
and now in the commodity market, we are
down by about 1.5%
at 107. So, Brent crude down to 107 from
112. That's a 4-5 [music] percentage
point trading range already. So, near
session lows, taking bond yields a
little bit lower compared to where they
were Tuesday and Thursday. So, getting
some support from fixed income and
commodities
>> [music]
>> off the back of some headlines in Iran
from about an hour or 2 hours ago.
>> Saying that the United States is
proposing a temporary waiver on Iranian
oil in the middle of this negotiating
period, which would mean we could see
more Iranian oil hit markets. It's very
interesting. Want to see the United
States what the White House has to say
about this, the credibility of this
report. But would it show that behind
the scenes, maybe there are more olive
branches the US [music] is willing to
extend. But you have to think they're in
a very difficult spot, especially going
to a Memorial Day weekend with $4.50
[music] a gallon of gasoline.
>> just itching to fight this story, isn't
it? Just anytime you get a headline,
it's just itching [music] to move on.
Look through the geopolitics, always.
This is the problem though, we aren't
moving on. It's been 80 days and Mike
Wilson is saying that ultimately the
fate of the rates market [music] is
going to rise and fall on the Strait of
Hormuz and right now, given the levels
that we're at, so too go risk assets.
>> Week ahead looks like this right now
heading into all of that. We're [music]
going to get this. The G7 finance
ministers meeting in Paris taking place
today with some pressure according
[music] to Secretary Blinken that he
wants them to ramp up their sanctions on
Iran.
>> service to the Europeans.
>> As we get headlines out of Iran
suggesting completely the opposite
anyway. Through the week also, lots of
Fed speak, tons of earnings, too. Nvidia
on Wednesday, we get Walmart on
Thursday, Target, Home Depot in the mix
as well. So, look out for all of that.
In the bond market, multi-decade highs
and long end yields coming into this
trading week. The 30-year [music] at 510
stateside. Colin Martin at Schwab
writing the sell-off is driven by a
confluence of factors including oil
prices, inflation, and shifting Fed
expectations. An extended pause on rates
is our base case. Colin joins us now for
more. Colin, good morning. Good to see
you. Good to see you.
>> Let me just read this quote out here.
Comes from Torsten Slok of Apollo. He
says renewed inflationary pressure,
large government deficits, the end of
QE, increased geopolitical
fragmentation. He thinks that means
rates will stay higher for longer.
Investors should plan accordingly. Do
you agree? Yeah, that sounds about
right. You know, our case right now is
for the 10-year yield to kind of stay in
a range. We probably think there's
probably more upside than downside, but
we don't see too many factors that are
going to pull Treasury yields
significantly lower anytime soon. To get
the 10-year back to say 4% or so, we
need to see much slower growth,
recessionary risks rise, and that's
really not the case right now. And with
the Fed on what we're calling an
extended pause, you know, two-sided
risks, who knows where we'll be in the
next, say, 9 months, 12 months. But the
case can certainly be made. What one
thing that you said there that that Slok
mentioned is,
you know, term premium, QE, balance
sheet things. The term premium is
something that we've been focusing on.
We're still at a relatively low level. I
know it's a hypothet- hypothetical thing
we're talking about here, but when you
look at historical term premiums in
periods when inflation was higher, more
inflation volatility, uncertainty, and
the no use of a balance sheet, one could
argue that the term premium should be a
little bit higher now. So that's a
little bit more upside pressure on
long-term yields.
>> will we struggle to live with? That's
what I'm trying to work out. At what
point does the bond market itself become
self-limiting? Close to the 5%?
Something north of that? When does that
start to bite for you?
>> Yeah, probably 5% or so. We've long held
that 5% is that kind of psychological
level, at least from an investor
standpoint. If the yield touches 5% on
the 10-year, we probably see some
buyers, um, probably jump in. At what
level does it become a risk for
borrowers or businesses? It's probably
close to 5% also. We do worry a little
bit, even though there's a lot of
complacency in the credit markets right
now. A lot of businesses were probably
planning for slightly lower rates. How
much lower? Obviously, that varies, but
but they're seeing the opposite right
now. So, anyone who's been planning
issuance, refinancing, all the
hyperscalers with their issuance, we're
seeing higher yields right now. We do
think that's a risk. One concern though
on the what's the level where, you know,
maybe investor demand comes in, we saw
the the 30-year auction last year, the
5% handle, wasn't the best auction,
wasn't terrible, but it came in, it
tailed a little bit, and it was the
first 5% handle on a on a 30-year since
'07, I think, and it's not like we saw a
lot of demand jump in there. Are you
concerned about the non-tech issuers in
the credit market given the fact that
you've got mass crowding out when it
comes to the hyperscalers issuing
billions of dollars of debt, the
Treasury issuing billions of dollars of
debt, and offering yields that actually
are giving people some income? Yeah, so
worried about that that investors might
not be too interested in lending to them
because there's everything out there?
Not really. We're We're We're okay with
with most of the non-tech, you know, IG
space at least. Credit quality is really
strong. There still appears to be a lot
of demand, and the demand keeps picking
up. I mean, the numbers we're seeing
really are staggering, but from a
fundamental standpoint, especially
non-tech, we're looking at, you know,
improving credit quality in IG. I mean,
we're seeing triple A's get upgraded to
single A space. So, I think the the
spreads you're seeing, yes, they're low,
but I think they're indicative of a
resilient economy and companies with
strong fundamentals. The resilience of
this market questions how are possibly
restrictive. Is this a restrictive rate
if the economy seems to be humming
along, if you're seeing issuance go to
record levels, and if you see
performance continue to withstand
without some sort of huge surge in
defaults? Yeah, it's probably not very
restrictive then. I mean, neutral at
best, maybe a little bit accommodative.
I mean, this has been our thought for a
while. Even if we go back prior to the
the spike in oil,
you can look at any number of things in
the economy and we say, "Why do we need
to be talking about rate cuts right now?
And and we we were projecting rate cuts
only one or two pre prior to the
conflict on our, you know, on the trend
of inflation moving gradually lower. But
when we look at where we stand right
now, that's not really the case. Stock
market continues to hit all-time highs.
Credit spreads are very low. Consumer
sentiment is down, but we're not seeing
it in spending numbers just yet. So,
arguably we are we are not restricted
right now. The Fed just moves so slowly.
If you think back to the experience
coming out of the pandemic, it took them
months to even begin talking about
winding down QE, and then months to wind
down QE before they could really start
talking about hiking interest rates.
And it's that that I think is sort of
paralyzing them right now. That maybe
the leadership of the Fed felt like it
was too soon just to adjust just a few
words in a statement. That's really what
this so-called easing bias is. It's a
few words, and if you ask anyone outside
our industry to find them, they wouldn't
know what to point to in the statement
that actually articulates the easing
bias. It's that vague. Well, that said,
if this is not a Fed that drops the
easing bias come June, how much does the
market push back massively? Because
right now, the market is screaming,
"Please drop the easing bias.
Acknowledge what we're telling you,
which is that inflation is presenting
you with a very complicated and
difficult situation."
>> between a rock and a hard place. If they
talk about hikes at the ECB, we're
talking about a hawkish policy mistake.
If they talk about maintaining an easing
bias at the Federal Reserve, they anchor
front-end rates, they leave the long end
vulnerable, we start talking about a
dovish mistake at the Federal Reserve.
There's no winning this summer until
this issue is sorted out in the Middle
East. Yeah, and that's the reason why a
lot of people are saying until that is
sorted, this is going to be a persistent
pressure pretty much globally. And
that's the reason why rates continue to
climb higher in the face of higher oil
prices, even though in the past they've
been self-limiting. Colin, it's good to
see you. Thank you, sir. Colin Martin
there of Charles Schwab. It's a bond
market without any anchors at the moment
without a solution in the Middle East.
We used to have anchors, we used to have
what was called the Japanese government
bond market and the German debt market,
and they just used to sit there holding
yields down, and those anchors have been
away for a long time now. People are
contemplating a new inflationary era
[music] where suddenly we have to build
things and that is a very different
proposition where income isn't enough to
get the job done. Futures positive.
Let's see if these gains hold. We're up
by 2/10 of 1% on the S&P 500. From New
York City this morning, good morning to
all. Thank you very much for [music]
choosing Bloomberg TV. Looking forward
to cover the week with you. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.